[Music]
There's still a ton of uncertainty
within the market to come.
>> The market just keeps moving sort of
relentlessly higher.
>> Stay long the S&P. It's almost
impossible to beat.
>> There's incredible dynamism. Investors
want exposure to that around the world.
>> For the US to outperform from here, you
essentially need to argue that we're
going off, you know, into the unknown.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
From New York City for our audience
worldwide, good morning. I'm Amry
Hordern alongside Danny Burgerer. We
have the changing landscape at the Fed
and it begins today. President Trump
nominates Steven Myerin, the Council of
Economic Adviserss chairman, fill
Governor Cougler seat as she steps down.
This is Governor Waller emerges as the
top candidate amongst the president's
adviserss to be the next Fed chair. And
in the meantime, the market continues to
digest tariff headlines. Japan is
subject to stacking of rates and gold
bars from Switzerland thought exempt
will now face levies according to one
report. Still earnings fuel this equity
market and stocks are coming into Friday
just shy Danny of a record high. It's
really remarkable that you can have
headline after headline about Fed
speculation, the tariff confusion to
your point. Throw in a CEO getting
chastised publicly by Trump and stocks
basically shrug it off yesterday. It
feels like Anmarie that this is a market
that has decided it is not going to
price in any risk until it sees the
whites of the eyes of the actual
outcome. It is a we'll cross that bridge
when we get there kind of market. Who's
the Fed nomination? We'll cross that
bridge when we get there. What are the
outcomes of the tariffs? We'll cross
that bridge when we get there.
>> And the problem with the outcome of the
tariffs is that it is changing. Japan
thought they had one deal. Now they're
saying potentially the rates are going
to be higher, especially when it comes
to autos. Switzerland, the market
thought these gold bars would be exempt.
doesn't look like that. According to an
FT report on the Fed, JP Morgan has a
note out new Fed governor, new Fed call.
There is this thinking that it is going
to be a more dovish Fed, even if it'll
be a hercuan effort to get Steven Myin
on the board before the September
meeting, especially given the fact that
the Senate is in recess right now. But
still, the direction of travel that this
is someone who will line up alongside
Governor Bowman and Waller when it comes
to desending. And I think the market
voted in that way. You had a curve that
steepened. You had a dollar that
weakened. Some of that trade also though
could be concerns of independence. But
to your point, Anarie, does it really
impact the outlook? If one, he's just a
temporary Fed governor. And two, you
already had the crowd going that way. If
he were to emerge potentially as the top
pick for Fed chair, maybe that could
change, but I think the best take came
from Connor Sen, a Bloomberg opinion
comment saying, "Hey, being a Fed
governor seems really cool. It's like
posting online without any
consequences." It doesn't really matter.
>> Doesn't really matter. Potentially, I
think it will matter once they start
getting a vote. And also Namora is
talking about the fact that maybe we are
at the end of this oneperson Fed rule.
And what does this mean for Jay Powell
who at the moment doesn't have the
chairmanship next year but has not told
the president whether or not he is going
to step down in his governor's seat.
Markets this morning are edging a little
bit higher. But as Danny and I have been
saying, we are still shy of these record
highs. No catalyst just yet in either
direction. S&P 5 futures this morning up
only 3/10en of a percent. Coming up this
hour, Lorie Calvacina of RBC as stocks
look to close out the week with gains.
Adam Hodgej a bully pulpit as Trump says
he is going to nominate Steven Myron to
the Fed and Neil Duta of Renaissance
Macro as Governor Waller emerges as the
top contender to be the Fed chair. We
begin this hours with Stock Steady as
investors digest a busy week of
earnings. Lori Calvacina of RBC writes
that while economic developments
dominated the headlines, we believe
earnings commentary also provides some
reason for equity investors to feel
unsettled. Lori joins us now. Lori, I
love the uh title of your note, angst
returns. What is the angst right now in
the market?
>> So, it it's interesting and Marie, as
we've gone through this reporting
season, we've of course gotten a number
of, you know, data points on tariffs and
headlines and deals struck and that sort
of thing. And it doesn't seem to matter
what comes out of the administration.
Every time I pick up an earnings call
transcript and I read something about
tariffs, the uncertainty point is
emphasized. And I think what that speaks
to is it's not just a question of the
policies. I think that corporate America
investors have wrapped their heads
around the idea that tariffs are here to
stay. I think it's also a question at
this point in time, how does that filter
through, you know, not just with the
rates themselves, not just with
inflation, but also with demand. Not
just in 2025, but in 2026.
Companies have been talking a lot about
mitigation. Some of them have alluded to
the idea that they're still figuring out
some of those plans. So, you know, I
think we had a big shock back in the
second quarter. Corporates reacted and
they're kind of coming back down to
earth and digesting still.
>> Well, since the April lows of Liberation
Day, the S&P 500 is up some 30%. It
seems like investors have moved on. They
think we're past that low of April, but
it sounds like from corporate America,
they're still nervous,
>> right? I think there's definitely a gap
or a disconnect between where the
corporate psyche is and where the
investor psyche is. And I think you can
also argue maybe a difference between
where corporations are and where
investor sentiment or individual
investor sentiment is as well. Um, you
know, we've seen these this big
inflection in the market. We've seen
inflections in things like NFIB,
Conference Board, Michigan. Um, if I'm
reading these tones, frankly, there's
been an inflection, but it it doesn't
sound to me like corporate America has
had as big of a recovery. And that may
just be because they are still very much
mired in the details.
>> We have seen some really big reactions
to earnings. You get a palunteer surging
8% after positive earnings. Eli Liy
crashing 14% after some disappointment
on their obesity drugs. But those
disappointments tend to be small with
big reactions. Is it outsiz this earning
season? Is that just anecdotal or is
something different going on?
>> This is tricky data. Like if you're
trying to gauge the one day price
reaction, this is a tricky thing to go
back and measure over time because of
like the before market and aftermarket
phenomenon. But um you know I have been
joking with people. I spent a number of
years as a small cap strategist and it
was routine you know back in my small
cap days to get 10 20% moves on earnings
and it felt like you know it was always
more like four five if it was extreme in
S&P. Um we've had some stocks Danny that
have moved like 25% 35% on earnings in
very different sectors. So, I think that
you've you're seeing something about
both liquidity. Um, I think visibility
is another thing. Those are issues that
used to plague us in the small cap space
and I think that's filtered its way up
into big cap right now.
>> So, what difference does it make then if
you have big caps that are swinging and
giving you maybe PTSD of your small cap
days, but a headline that's really
sanguin? What does that mean with how
you approach this market in terms of
hedging and just judging where
volatility goes?
>> Well, I like to joke also, forgive me,
I'm a data nerd, so my jokes aren't
funny, but um,
>> you're on Bloomberg TV. The all data
jokes are funny,
>> but I I do think valuations always come
home to roost. I think there's always a
question, you know, of what they signal
in terms of timing. You know, obviously
they can stay stretched for a while, but
I have watched the industrial sector
with great interest in this reporting
season because generally I think they've
been, you know, fine but not fabulous in
terms of their ability to move to manage
through, but we are seeing a lot of
stocks that are moving down. Maybe not
some of those massive outsized
reactions. This has been an
extraordinarily expensive sector. Um,
every time I update my valuation model,
we look at the median PE, so not a cap
weighted PE, but a median PE, both
relative and absolute, and it's
somewhere between two and three standard
deviations versus the long-term average
going back to the late 1980s. Um, and
you contrast that, you know, with other
sectors like maybe healthcare where the
valuations have been a little bit
reasonable. Um, things, you know,
they're dealing with a lot of the same
issues, um, but different reactions.
>> How's the consumer names preparing right
now?
>> So, you know, there there's a real
disconnect in the consumer discussion. I
was actually talking with some folks
about this earlier this week internally
the financial companies and we've
written about this in our pulse report
you know the last few weeks is the
financial companies you read a credit
card you read a bank and they're like
yay the consumer is fine they're
delinquencies are low all the stats are
really good we're really proud of the
consumer you know for not letting
themselves get stretched and then you
read the food companies or you read some
of these travel companies and the
composition of the spend is showing
caution beneath the surface. So, you
know, if we want to kind of listen to
these financial companies and they're
like, "The consumer's okay." It's like,
eh, the consumer is really not okay.
They're not in terrible shape. They're
actually, you know, in very good shape
from a balance sheet perspective. So,
they're weathering the storm, but the
consumer doesn't feel good right now.
>> If they're under pressure, can these
companies and all the earnings reports
you dig through, can they raise prices?
>> Well, I think the industrial companies
think that they can, and they sound a
lot more confident on that. The consumer
companies are much more squishy and they
are very conscious of the fact that the
consumer is value conscious. I've been
talking about that, you know, when we
write these earnings recaps, I feel like
for like three or four, you know,
quarters in a row and it hasn't let up
in this reporting season, just that
value consciousness, that shopping
around. Um, even seeing it at the high
end, right? It's not just a phenomenon
hitting the low end. So, I think the
consumer companies are much much more
wary about their ability to do that. The
big question anmarie is how much demand
was pulled forward. I would say both
with consumers and the more kind of
industrial side of the economy. I don't
think corporate America has a great
handle on that right now.
>> Yeah. I think it was one of the chip
companies that said we have no idea how
much of our demand was pulled forward.
Does that mean that some of the
estimates that they're giving are too
optimistic? Maybe they're not really
judging how much was pulled forward and
how much things might drop off at the
end of the year?
>> You know, we sort of dealt with some of
this stuff back in CO, right? And you
know there was different dynamics but
you know I I do think that there is some
risk to earnings on both sides right I
think to to the extent demand was pulled
forward maybe there are some air pockets
coming. I worry about that in particular
for the consumer area um where I feel
like the consumer has sort of understood
the inflationary pressures you know kind
of much better. Um you know it could be
that some of these companies that
thought they saw pull forward really
didn't and things are going to continue.
We just don't know that either. And you
know, I'm seeing I I've tried to keep
track of which companies are saying yes,
pull forward, which companies are saying
no, which companies, you know, are
saying we have no idea, which companies
just aren't commenting. And it's kind of
feels like an even distribution so far.
>> Danny, it feels a bit murky. I mean, I
know even individuals in my family, my
sister started buying Christmas gifts
because she was so nervous that the
toys, the price hikes were going to be
enormous and even a new car because of
the concern about the tariffs. Sure,
what do they do the rest the rest of the
year? What are they spending on?
>> Right? Wanted to make sure she had more
than one doll to give out for Christmas,
of course. But even someone like Tim
Cook comes out and says only 1% of the
10% revenue growth we had at Apple was
because of a pull forward effect. I
actually don't even know how you can
judge that. I mean, are they asking
customers who are buying iPhones, hey,
are you doing this cuz you're scared
it's going to get more expensive? So,
even when you have certainty in numbers,
there's this murkiness to your point
underlying it.
>> I think there's also an issue of
inventory. So, some of the
transportation companies have brought up
recently that they haven't seen, you
know, sort of like peak ordering. Um,
I'm not an expert on the transportation
space, but it sounds to me like a, you
know, a lot of companies haven't put
their orders in. And one of the toy
companies, I I have small children, so
I've paid probably too much attention to
this stuff, but um, one of the toy
companies actually warned parents on
their earnings call to go out and buy
some of the hot toys because they
weren't going to be able to replenish
the stock. Now, I actually went and
checked out one of those toys, and it
was more expensive than I wanted to
spend on that particular item. But, you
know, it just sort of was a reminder to
me that the kind of demand dynamics are
complex, but also the inventory dynamics
are pretty complex.
>> Christmas sounds fun at your house. Lori
Kalisino, you're sticking with us. We're
going to break down the new Fed
governor. Uh, coming up next, let's get
you an update at this time with stories
elsewhere. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Lizzie Burton. Hey, Lizzie. Hey,
Amarie. Israel is poised to take over
Gaza City as part of a final push to
topple Hamas and recover its remaining
50 hostages, dead or alive. The decision
to seize the strip's largest city marks
the biggest escalation in the
22-monthlong conflict in an already
devastated territory where the UN warned
half a million people are starving.
Elsewhere, President Donald Trump c
tapped Council of Economic Advisors
Chairman Steven to serve as a temporary
Fed governor through January 2026. Trump
will continue to look for a permanent
replacement in the interim with the race
for Fed chair still underway. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that Fed
Governor Chris Waller has emerged as a
top candidate for the role among Trump
advisers. And Intel CEO Lit Bhutan says
that he has the full backing of the
company's board as President Donald
Trump calls for his resignation. Tan has
reached out to the White House to clear
up what he called quote misinformation
about his track record, writing in a
letter to staff, quote, I fully share
the president's commitment to advancing
US national and economic security. And
that should be my brief. I'm Marie.
Thanks so much, Lizzie. We have more on
that intel story later in the program.
Up next though, more surprises for the
Fed.
>> Governor Waller has really built up a
really impressive track record in the
last few years at the Fed. He's done a
really good job having an independent
voice, which I think ultimately uh is
proven correct that there isn't really
much of an inflationary threat from
terrorists.
>> Adam Haj of Bully Pulpit International
joins us next. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Anime Hordern. Equity
futures this morning just shy of a
record high. We still are in the green
territory. But nothing really even
amongst all these headlines in the past
24 hours able to break out this
basically treading water we have seen in
the stock market under surveillance this
morning. More surprises for the Fed.
Governor Waller has really built up a
really impressive track record in the
last few years at the Fed and I think
he's done himself uh you know a big
credit recently as as as well uh you
know not succumbing to the tariff
derangement syndrome that many others uh
throughout the throughout the country
but particularly at the Fed seem to have
succumbed to. He's done a really good
job having an independent voice which I
think ultimately uh is proven correct
that there isn't really much of an
inflationary threat from terrorists.
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump tapping Council of Economic
Adviserss chairman Steven Meerin to
serve as a temporary Federal Reserve
Governor through January of 2026 as
Federal Governor Chris Waller emerges as
a favorite for the chair position among
the Trump team. Bloomberg's Mike McKe
joins us now. So Mike, first to Stephen
Meyer, what should we know about him?
>> Well, the interesting thing about him is
on monetary policy, he's somewhat
orthodox uh and what you would describe
as pragmatic. He has spoken out against
inflation. Last fall when the Fed was
cutting interest rates, he was opposed
to it because he thought they were uh
too premature in giving up on inflation.
Now, of course, he's paring the Trump
line. So, it isn't clear whether he
continues to uh be more hawkish on
inflation or whether he would get on the
board and take a very uh dovish view
going forward. what he might be in
heavily involved in is regulatory
matters because he has published work on
how the Fed should be reformed and he
has proposed some significant reforms
like letting every member of the open
market committee vote and letting state
governors pick the regional Fed bank
president. So, uh there's a lot he could
do but he would probably have to stay on
and that's the question that's
unanswered. Does he stay on or does he
just have a couple of months in the
seat? Is he a real temp individual or
actually is in a trial period?
Bloomberg's Mike McKe, thank you so
much. Let's continue this conversation
now with Adam Hajj of Bully Pulpit
International. Adam, I really would love
to get from you whether or not you think
this is going to be smooth sailing in
the Senate and could it get done before
September, the September Fed meeting?
>> Well, it's it's good to be back with you
all. I think well and also kudos to your
Bloomberg for the get of the Fed new Fed
nominee Dave day he's announced. I think
there's a real question about whether
the Senate will come back to actually
hold confirmation hearings for him. But
they're going to be a doozy. There's no
question about it. I think you can
expect some fireworks between Elizabeth
Warren and some of the on on the
Democratic side. We're going to ask hard
questions about Trump's e economic
plans, the tariffs, and whether uh Mr.
Byron will have that independence that
uh we all want to hope and and have at
the Fed. That I think is going to be the
big question. I think that will be the
big part of the confirmation hearings.
And the president has put pressure on
Senator Thun, the Senate Majority
Leader, to get his nominees passed
tonight. So, I wouldn't be surprised if
that pressure ramps back up and maybe
the senators come back a couple weeks
early. Adam, there's been much
commentary over the idea that Myronin or
any of the Kevin any appointment
wouldn't have too big of a consequence
because it is a committee because one
individual person can't fully sway them.
That was the argument at least from Bill
Dudley speaking to Anmarie and myself
earlier this week. You though right that
chipping away at the Fed's credibility
will have lasting consequences. What is
your concern at that chipping away?
Look, I think there are real concerns
and questions about if the Fed is deemed
to be making decisions that are in the
political interest of the president and
not based on the hardcore data. That
presents real questions for this uh
confidence that that the global economy
will have in the US economy and whether
the decisions that we make, you know, as
the benchmark currency for the world
that the decisions that are made in
Washington are truly in the best
interest of the economy or in the
interest of the president. We've seen
this be a problem for economies that
have injected more political pressure on
their central banks. And I think it's
it's right for people to question and to
hope that the new nominees, whoever
comes to serve on the board, whoever
becomes chair has that independence to
do what's right for the economy. And and
I think that is something that the
president and the White House should
want. And let's hope and and I think ask
that this administration continues in
that trend. Well, as Mike McKe
mentioned, some of the more, let's call
it extreme of Myron's beliefs come from
papers he wrote earlier, not on policy
itself, but things on legislative
changes happening at the Fed. For
example, letting the president fire the
Fed chief for any reason or any of the
governors. But again, that is something
that would take need necessitate
legislative change. Adam, do you think
that any of those are likely to happen?
>> I don't. Uh because I think that the
members of Congress in the Senate for
all of the the talk on the political
side about you know whether the
president can fire the Fed, you've seen
members of the Senate in particular um
pour some cold water uh on that idea
because I think they recognize
quite rightly that it would have
damaging consequences on people's
confidence and trust in the US economy.
So I know I don't see that happening uh
in the next few months. I really don't.
>> Adam, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Adam Hajj of Bully Pulpit
International. Lori Calvacina of RBC is
still with us. Lori, this morning JP
Morgan has a note out and they basically
said a shakeup at the Fed means it's
locking in interest rate cut cuts. What
does it mean for the equity market? So,
look, I think if you go back over time
really kind of since 2023, uh we've seen
this dynamic where when the the bond
market is dialing up their expectations
for cuts, it tends to give a little bit
of a tailwind to the equity market and
small caps in particular on a relative
basis versus large caps. So we we have
kind of looked to the back half of the
year and said, you know, we expect some
choppiness because of seasonality,
because of valuations, because of all
this tariff stuff we talked about, but
we have acknowledged the idea that cuts
are coming one way or another. Maybe
it's September, maybe it's December,
maybe it's next year. The market's been
baking that in. So I think anything that
you know the market can eventually end
up with a, hey, this is good for rate
cuts, that ends up bolstering the case
for equities a bit.
>> So all this palace intrigue about what's
going to happen at the Fed, does the
market just not care anymore because
it's baked in? Well, I think that, you
know, Danny made a good point earlier.
It has to kind of see the whites of the
eyes. But I think the headlines change
so much and we just think about the past
week, even with this Fed narrative,
there have been so many different twists
and turns. I think the market is trying
to take a slightly longer term view and
say, "Let me see how this pans out and
then I'll react." And while that may not
be what I'm used to for most of my
career, where they tend to shoot first
and think later, that actually probably
is a pretty healthy dynamic. It is
interesting though because there was a
slight reaction when we had our
reporting out that Waller was emerging
as a candidate for the Fed governor and
it was stocks got weaker to your point
this idea that maybe it's not as dovish
as putting let's say Kevin Hassid in at
the Fed chief but ultimately in the
longer run what matters more for stocks
is it getting those cuts or concerns
about brand America and Fed independence
>> well look here here I would say there's
a little bit of a difference between US
investors and non- US investors and one
thing we do in our weekly is we watch
the EP PFR flows where we can really
parse that out and you have seen more of
a rotation out of the US and into Europe
if you look at European doiciled funds
for example. So let's watch that news
flow out of Europe. Um but look I would
say at the end of the day the tricky
spot for me is really why would the Fed
cut right and after we got that NFP
report it felt like we had a case for a
weakening labor market that was spurring
those cuts. And that's a really
interesting debate, right? Because
investors on the equity side have
generally wanted their cuts alongside a
healthy, you know, resilient economy
without too much damage. So if you start
to see some further evidence of erosion
in the labor market, are the Fed cuts
going to be enough? We'll have to see.
My guess is that's something that
contributes to volatility in the next
few months.
>> By the way, speaking of flows, there was
that weekly Bank of America note out
from Michael Hartnett who noted that you
started actually now to see outflows
from equity funds. I think it was just
under 30 billion. And that go into safer
money market funds. Has something
changed in the psychology of the
investor in recent months that they're
less willing to continue to chase new
highs during the summer meltup?
>> No, it's a great question. Look, I
haven't had a chance to digest that new
EPFR data because it comes out at night
and I think he's in Europe, so he has a
leg up on me. Um, which always drives me
nuts. But um the the reality is if you
look at just how the trends and flows
have been recently that US equity flow
just allin has been weakening and it
actually was incredibly strong last
November around the election. We've seen
both US and non- US investors pulling
back but we're getting into a stretch of
the market that's not only weak
seasonally from a performance
perspective. We actually went back
recently and looked at the dynamics of
US equity flows on a seasonal basis and
this is also a pretty weak seasonal time
of year. So this is the time of year
when you would start to see that kick in
frankly regardless of the news flow
>> right it's converging with a tremendous
amount of news flow and uncertainty in
Washington one thing we have heard from
people is the concern internationally
about the gold standard of the data the
fact that are these institutions
independent do you think that at the
margins that's chipping away at US
equity markets
>> look I will say as an equity strategist
right like I'm not on the front lines of
this discussion the way my rates and my
econ teams are but I have personally you
know just come to the conclusion that in
the postcoid environment, number one,
survey data is just a little wonkier
than it used to be. Um, I'm not sure if
that's borne out by the data, but that's
what it feels like to me. Maybe we're
just all being more sensitive to these
revisions and all just more aware that
people don't fill out surveys. I also
think that since co, we've really lucked
out in the equity community because we
had this explosion of alternative data
sets, you know, that are produced by
banks, that are produced by private kind
of thirdparty enterprises. We have a
prepundonderance of data to look at.
That's really what my job is is not to
look at any one data point, but to look
at all of the data and see what
direction it's pointing in. And I think
investors have kind of gotten used to
that already. Not to say these issues
don't matter, but I think there's bigger
context. Lori, thank you so much for
your time this morning. Lori Calvacina
of RBC. Coming up on the program, we're
going to be speaking to Samuel Sherup of
Rand on a potential Trump Putin meeting.
Plus, Yhierra Anen with your morning
movers as Expedia soarses on strong
travel demand. We do have equity futures
this morning slightly up this Friday
morning. Going to close out the week
higher, but again just treading water in
this very uncertain environment. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Anime Hordern
alongside Danny Burgerer. Today, John
and Lisa on some muchdeserved time off
this morning. As Jonathan would say, no
drama in the equity market. We are just
shy of all-time highs. Really this
treading water. Markets have these
knee-jerk reactions reacting to
headlines then pretty much settle down
to where we are. We are up on S&P 500
futures 3/10en of a percent. We are
three hours away now from the cash open.
Let's get your morning movers with you.
Hey y
and Danny were talking about those big
post earnings moves. as well. I have
three stocks underscoring that trend.
And we start with Expedia soaring 17%
after it raised its fullear outlook as
they see a demand a demand recovery
specifically in the US. The CEO saying
that since the beginning, beginning of
July, they've seen a tick up in travel
demand um not just internationally, but
especially in the US. And that is very
similar to what we've heard from other
airlines and other companies saying that
July did provide a turning point for the
US consumer. Moving on to another
consumer bell weather that is Instacart
shares are also soaring up 13% after it
posted its fastest order growth since
2022 for the second quarter in a row.
And this is because it's been making
changes to entice those price conscious
consumers like providing lower minimums
for free delivery. It's working and it's
just another sign after we heard from
Uber and Door Dash that consumers are
willing to pay for convenience. But what
they're not willing to pay for is those
$20 salads and that is hitting sweet
grain hard this morning, down 26%. Wow.
The salad chain slashed its sales
outlook after a second straight quarter
of weak results. And they're saying that
budget conscious consumers are trading
down to cheaper options, underscoring
what Lori just told you guys that the
consumer is proving to be very value
conscious. Emry. Wow. Yhierra, that's a
big number down not so sweet this
morning. Thank you so much for that. On
our radar this morning, President Trump
nominating Steven Myron, chair of the
White House Council of Economic
Adviserss to serve on the Fed's Board of
Governors. Myin would serve the
remainder of outgoing Governor Adriana
Cougler's term set to expire in January.
And pretty much Danny, the market was
expecting someone that was going to be a
Trump ally. The big question is whether
or not is this really temporary or
potentially could this be someone that
stays at the Fed
>> and that's going to make the difference
cuz if it is temporary, it was an FOMC
that was already starting to come around
to a dovish idea. Daily for example
talking about the need to cut rates. So
just one other voice to that dovish
choir doesn't really matter and if he
maybe can't even get nominated until
October. But you are right and Marie if
he is nominated as the chair that
changes the conversation considering
this is someone who has very specific
ideas about overhauling the Fed and
really has written the economic backbone
for Trump's trade policy.
>> And we're going to get more on what this
all means with Neil Duta in the next
block. Neil Dada has been very
optimistic that potentially Governor
Waller would then take the top post and
we have reporting that at the moment
that is the individual adviser telling
Trump would be the best person to fill J
Pal's sho shoes and tariff uncertainty
persisting this morning. Gold futures
are surging to an all-time high after
the US put tariffs on gold bars. The
move threatening to upend trade flows
from Switzerland and other key refining
hubs. On top of that, the US confirmed
it would end stacking of universal
tariffs on Japan and cut car levies
under the stacking system. The 15%
tariff rate applied to Japan was being
added to existing levies on its
products. US officials express regret
and refund any overpaid levies. If
you're keeping up, congratulations. I
was confused this morning. There is so
much confusion and it's just part of the
way that these deals have been done that
you get the topline agreement first then
the details later. It's something that
you've been really good at pointing out
an Marie but in some ways I wonder if
this does leave the US with continued
leverage because you have this
uncertainty if these countries are doing
something the US doesn't like do they
retain pressure that they can keep on
their allies every delay a reminder that
the finer points the benefits really
hinge on keeping Washington DC happy
>> and with a lot of these countries
they're still almost in negotiation with
Switzerland they definitely are
individuals like Japan Japan's top trade
adviser was in Washington DC yesterday
So, a lot of these conversations, the
devil's in the details, as Danny just
said. Now, we want to get to top stories
worldwide. Israel is preparing to take
control of Gaza City as part of a final
push to topple Hamas and recover its
remaining 50 hostages. The decision
marks the biggest escalation in the
22-monthlong conflict. Bloomberg's Mark
Champion joins us now. Mark, what can
you tell us about what BB Netanyahu is
planning to do?
Well, I mean, he has said that uh he
wants the uh armed forces to go in and
take Gaza City. It's the remaining kind
of quarter uh of uh Gaza. The rest of it
they already control. Um the point here
is that they've avoided it. Um and
primarily because it's where they
believe the remaining hostages are being
held. Uh so they they didn't want to
participate uh precipitate their their
their deaths. Now what Netanyahu is
saying is basically we need for you know
a third time really this is a third
attempt at finishing off Hamas um and
getting it done and then he has said you
know we would then withdraw um but we
would remain in control of security um
an Arab force would come in um but what
he hasn't done is to u agree to any of
the terms on which the Arab nations have
said that they would come in, rebuild
Gaza, take responsibility for it. Uh so,
you know, in fact, specifically, he's
ruled those out. So, it's really not
clear. He says that they, you know,
Israel does not want to permanently
occupy Gaza. Um it's just going in to,
you know, deal with the hostages, deal
with Hamas, and then, you know, someone
else would take over. But you know
unless he agrees to terms that that he
can come to agreement with terms then uh
we are looking at a more permanent
occupation uh which has you know very
severe uh implications both for
Palestinians uh and for the region.
>> Even if he did agree to terms Mark who
possibly could even take over oversight
of the region is there a credible uh
alternative at this moment?
Well, there there are proposals that the
Saudis, uh, the UAE, Egypt, and so on,
they're all, uh, uh, you know, ready to
get involved. Certainly, they have the
money. Um, what they want is for the
Palestinian Authority to move in and
replace Hamas. This is something that
Netanyahu has ruled out. Um, they want,
you know, administration. there would
obviously be quite substantial inter
international administration alongside
the Palestinian Authority for some time.
Um there are you know a lot of details
to work out and some flaws in the plan.
The primary one being you know what do
you do uh to disarm Hamas if uh it has
not already been disarmed or hasn't
agreed to do so. Uh so uh but you know
these are things that potentially could
be worked out but it it doesn't look so
far that Netanyahu is interested.
>> Mark, thank you so much for your time
this morning and the update on what is
going on in Israel. Bloomberg's Mark
Champion sticking with geopolitics.
President Trump says he's willing to
meet with Russian President Vladimir
Putin, though the White House previously
said he would not sit down with Putin
before the Russian leader agreed to meet
with President Wimir Zalinski. Samuel
Sheriff of Rand joins us now. Sam, what
do you make of all this? Do you think a
meeting will actually take place? And
what do you make of the about phase from
the White House whether or not they're
going to sit down with Putin depending
on if he sits down with the Ukrainian
leader?
>> Well, I mean, I think it seems like
we're the momentum is moving towards a
meeting um as early as next week. That
does seem to be what both the Kremlin
and the White House have indicated. As
for the question about whether uh it was
conditioned on Putin's agreement to do
this in a sort of trilateral format with
uh Zalinski and Trump at once, you know,
the rumors are flying quite wildly right
now and we we are really uh in a sort of
um information environment where uh you
know, you hear one thing from White
House sources in the middle of the day
and Trump comes out and says the
opposite at the end. It's unclear the
extent to which this agreement, this
meeting has the kind of infrastructure
in place that one would normally expect
from a presidential level summit on a
quite sensitive issue. So I think a lot
of the details are being worked out as
we go along here.
>> Usually a summit is the final lever
that's pulled in a negotiation and it's
basically to sign an agreement that work
for months already went into. Does this
feel like this summit is actually the
start of that process?
>> I think if if the meeting does happen, I
think the best we can hope for is for
the leaders to agree to begin a process.
Now, I'm not sure that that's where
Trump's mind is at. I think he sees um
the power of his own personal diplomacy
as being, you know, definitive in these
kinds of uh interactions. and that I'm
sure he's hoping for a concrete outcome
like a ceasefire from this kind of
meeting. I think that you know the
prospect of the war coming to an end
next week is pretty you know improbable
at this point. Um so you know whether
Trump's expectations and the realities
of how these kinds of uh interactions
have worked in the past can be
reconciled um is is an open question.
But I do think that the most really one
can expect out of a meeting like this
given the uh you know intensity of the
ongoing conflict and the really naughty
issues involved in resolving it is an
agreement but from the leaders to begin
a process in earnest that could you know
over time we're talking weeks months
produce an outcome um like a ceasefire
or a broader settlement. Also notably,
Sam, it's not a meeting that's just
going to be missing President Silinski,
but really any European representative.
And this is something in the past that
the Europeans have loathed that a
decision potentially is being made
without their input. Is there a real
risk that a meeting between these two
leaders could sway President Trump into
pushing for an outcome that is more
favorable to Russia and President Putin?
Well, I think that both the Europeans
and the Ukrainians are concerned and
many others presumably uh that you know
if Trump if Putin were to give Trump
some concessions or ask for certain
conditions that Trump finds acceptable
but the rest of the world or rest of
Europe and and Ukraine do not, such as
international recognition of Russia's
annexations in Ukraine um in return for
a ceasefire that he might go for it and
then sort demand that Zilinsky agree.
You know, I think the reality is that
Putin's demands are quite comprehensive
and they're ones that, you know, I think
Trump is going to have a hard time
swallowing whole. Um, they're going to
have to be hammered out over time. So, I
think while that fear is there, it does
seem to be unlikely that it's going to
be the kind of thing where Trump can say
yes to something that Putin would then
say, "Okay, well, that's enough. I'm
done."
um you know there's going to have
Ukraine is going to have to be a party
to it in the end. You can't do this uh
to the Ukrainians. You have to do it
with them because they are the ones
doing the fighting and ultimately they
have a say whether they're at the table
or not and whether a ceasefire holds. Um
so you know I think there are concerns
but ultimately the Ukrainians are going
to have to be part of the picture and
and the Europeans too they have equities
here. you know, they have sanctions
regime is is uh is that they're a key
part of and their assistance to Ukraine
is obviously central to Ukraine's
future.
>> Very quickly, Sam, you mentioned what's
going on with the Europeans. Do the does
the US and the EU need to be aligned in
order for this to work?
it would make it a lot easier given that
they are the key uh actors together and
have been since the beginning of the
full-scale invasion in February 2022 in
both applying pressure to Russia
together um at least in the past and uh
in um supporting the Ukrainians and
Ukraine's future being on an EU
membership path. Obviously that puts the
Europeans in a position of of of sort of
decisive uh being a decisive actor. So
the fact that US EU relations are in uh
the the state that they are makes this a
whole lot more complicated. Um it would
be much better for the purposes of this
negotiation if Trump were speaking for a
sort of united west, but that is
obviously not the case right now.
>> Samuel, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Samuel Sharup of Rand and
he recently has a piece out talking
about how peace negotiations Ukraine
haven't haven't failed. They haven't
really started which everyone is looking
at this meeting. Is it the end of this
agreement or really the beginning of
just a new process? Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
we're tracking. Here's your Bloomberg
brief with Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzie.
Hey Amarie. The US confirmed that it
would end stacking of universal tariffs
on Japan and cut car levies. Under the
stacking system, the 15% tariff applied
to Japan was being added on existing
levies on its products. Officials
expressed regret that the stacking rule
had been applied to Japan despite a
verbal agreement and said that
Washington would refund any overpaid
levies. Elsewhere, Meta has picked PIMCO
and Blue Owl to lead a $29 billion
financing for its data center expansion
in rural Louisiana. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg that PIMCO is expected
to lead a $26 billion debt portion of
the financing, while Blue Owl is
providing $3 billion of equity.
Representatives for Meta, Pimco, and
Blue Owl declined to comment. And OpenAI
is rolling out its new AI model called
GPT5, which is designed to be more
capable at coding and creative writing,
as well as reasoning through complex
queries. CEO Sam Olman called the new
model a major upgrade, saying it really
feels like talking to an expert in any
topic. It'll be made widely available to
all free users. And that should be my
brief on Marie. Thanks so much, Lizzie.
Up next on the program, the race to
replace Chair Powell.
>> There is a very strong culture and ethic
at the Fed to make decisions divorced
from political pressure, political
considerations.
That culture is very strong at the Fed.
>> Neil Dota of Ren Mack joins us next.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Equity markets. Futures
higher this morning, looking to close
out the week in the green, but still shy
of record highs. The market is digesting
a ton of headlines. Not just what's
going on in tariffs and will there will
not be tariffs stacking in Japan or
tariffs on gold bars, but also what is
happening at the Federal Reserve and
that is under surveillance this morning.
The race to replace Chair Powell.
>> I think there is a very strong culture
and ethic at the Fed to make decisions
divorced from political pressure,
political considerations. That culture
is very strong at the Fed. there'll be
an onus on whoever the chair is to
uphold that ethic. Uh and uh and and I
know Chris Waller, for example, would.
Here's the latest. President Trump has
nominated Steven Myron to serve the rest
of Fed Governor Adriana Cougler's
expiring term. Sources telling us that
Fed Governor Chris Waller is a top
candidate to replace Jerome Powell as
Fed chair among Trump's team. Neil Duna
of Renaissance Macro writes, "I've long
believed Waller achieves the president's
aims. The risk with anyone else is that
they potentially keep Powell in place
and end up being a chairman in name
only." Neil Dut of RenMack joins us now.
So Neil, basically what you were saying
is that if the Trump administration
wants to make sure Powell steps aside,
they have to go with someone like Chris
Waller. Do you think Powell would
actually stay if they go with another
name?
>> Well, I mean, I don't I don't know.
Obviously, uh it's it would be unusual,
but nothing about the process so far.
And Marie, as you uh would probably
tell, has been usual. So, um you know, I
do think that um Powell has one card,
his trump card, so to speak, and he's
keeping it very close to his chest.
>> Here's another card. Breitbart's John
Carney says potentially there's still a
chance for Bessant to become Fed Chair,
the current Treasury Secretary. quote,
"If Besset moves to the Fed, someone
will need to carry the Treasury
portfolio forward. The obvious choice is
Larry Cuddlo. He already knows the job
from his time at NEC director Neil. Do
you just maybe guess that this
administration is trying to have
strategic ambiguity and option and lots
of optionality when it comes to what
they plan to do next year?"
>> Yeah, I mean, Any, I don't do palace
intrigue. Uh, Secretary Besson has said
repeatedly he doesn't want the job. He
has the best job in DC. Um obviously
they make musicals about the Treasury
Secretary not the Fed chair. Um but you
know stranger things have happened. Um
you know obviously
you know we all know how the sort of
Trump horse race uh works. I mean at one
time it was possible that Kevin Walsh
was going to be Treasury Secretary on
route to being Fed chair. Um so there's
always this sort of up and down with
different people. um whoever has the
president's ear most recently. And you
know, you can't rule it out. Um
obviously, uh Christopher Waller, you
know, this article came out this week. I
mean, I think you can make an argument
that even though it's encouraging,
perhaps he's peing a little bit too
early in the horse race.
>> Neil, it took me way too long to realize
you were talking about Hamilton, by the
way. I was like, did someone make a
>> Maybe Larry Cuddlo?
>> Yeah, Larry Cuddlo the musical. I'm sure
tickets will be flying off the shelves.
Um Neil, if let's say that some of this
palace intrigue are trial balloons to
see how the market reacts, what has been
your judge in how the market has reacted
to some of these names being thrown out?
>> Well, I mean, I I don't think that there
was much market movement with uh
with Steve. I mean, you know, I think,
you know, it's it's going to be very
difficult for one person to kind of
affect sweeping change, and it's not
even clear that um, you know, this will
be his seat after the 3-month term is
up, and it's not clear exactly when
he'll get seated. So, it's really
difficult for one person to have that
much sway in a in an institution that is
built off of uh consensus building. Um,
so, you know, I mean, I think if if you
had to like put a magnifying glass to
it, I mean, I thought it was interesting
that um, you know, the the back end of
the yield curve moved down a little bit
when Waller was kind of moving up and
uh, you know, yields rose a bit more
when Hasset was moving up this week.
But, uh, you know, that might be also
stretching for for a narrative on my
point on on my part.
>> Fair enough. And it's a Fed that's built
on consensus building, Neil, going back
to your original point, if it is a
Powell that stays on, does he and will
he have the power of being that shadow
Fed chair of sorts, would he stay on and
continue to consensus build and try to
lead the Fed in a direction even if he's
not the chair?
>> Well, I mean, he would be there as a
check. I mean, again, I mean, this is
pure speculation, right? I mean, it
would be again a very unusual thing, but
I stress that nothing about the process
has been usual. So um you know if if if
at a minimum he shouldn't be giving any
uh signal about his future plans until
the president nominates
uh his replacement.
>> We have a nomination yesterday Neil when
it comes to Cougler seeks I want to get
your thoughts on this. Less than a year
ago Steven was talking about the fact
the Fed shouldn't be cutting because GDP
growth was 2.5 to 3% where we are now.
The labor market is stronger than the
doves think and underlying inflation is
running 2.5 to 3%. So do you think that
the market is just gonna purely look at
him as political?
>> Well, no. I mean, I think, you know,
look, I mean, you know, Steve is a um a
top-notch economist and he knows what
he's doing. I mean, you know, I
obviously I disagreed with him last year
on on on rate cuts. Um, I thought the
Fed was right um to do a large upfront
move given the cracking in the labor
market and I think they're right to cut
uh now as well. Um, I think uh what
Myron would argue would basically be
that the the supply side of the uh the
economies is expanding. Um and uh you
know part of that could be driven by um
you know a deregulation agenda uh
increased uh capital investment um and
that's probably what's uh you know and
the fact that inflation's been coming in
you know generally weaker than expected
for the first half of the year. Uh you
know those things probably lead him uh
into into the direction of a cut. You
know, with me, uh, my concerns are
primarily about, uh, the, uh, the
ongoing cooling in the job market and,
uh, the weak growth in nominal incomes,
uh, nominal GDP, uh, in the first half
of the year.
>> A lot of guests will come on the program
and say it's really not weak, it's just
a freeze because we've had all this
uncertainty. What's your response to
that? Because you really think we have a
weak labor market.
>> Yes, I do. I mean, look at prime age
rates of employment. They're down half a
percentage point against last year. That
is a very unusual situation. Um if you
look at uh the breath of employment
growth, it's basically at stall speed.
Um it's it's consistent with stall
speed. You basically have barely half of
the industry's adding work. Um and you
know there's also additional weakness in
the pipeline because we know that the
housing market is slowing down and
builders are rationalizing their
business models and aligning
construction activity to their sales
which have been weaker. That means that
they're going to need fewer construction
workers going forward. So despite all
this uh talk about how immigration is
kind of um you know stealthily
stealthily tightening the job market if
you ask um builders about whether they
can find workers they have no problem
sourcing labor which means that demand
is cooling off uh so you know I think
that there's more downside ahead
particularly in good goods producing
industries um and uh you know if if
companies generally speaking are a
little bit more concerned about their
demand demand and outlook, they're not
going to be hiring as much or investing
as much. Um, you know, the conference
board put out an interesting survey of
CEO confidence. And while CEO confidence
recovered, not surprisingly, because the
markets have recovered, you still have a
large number of CEOs, the highest since
the fourth quarter of 2020, telling you
that they plan net reductions in their
workforce over the next uh uh period of
time. So, to me, I I think the the labor
market are on very thin ice. Neil and
you've been very consistent about that.
Neil Duta of Renmack, thank you so much
for joining us. Coming up in the next
hour, Sevita Subermanian of Bank of
America, Monica Gu of Morgan Stanley,
former Senate trade advisor, advisor
Bruce Hirs.
[Music]
The economy has been kicking along.
Things have been going well.
>> Policy right now is still restrictive.
We are seeing signs that the labor
market is slowing. The FOMC is is under
tremendous amount of pressure.
>> It's very likely that we will see some
easing.
>> We are expecting a cut in rate in
September. Now
>> this is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> From New York City for audience
worldwide. Good morning. I'm Amir
Hordern alongside Danny Ber. John and
Lisa are off today. The changing
landscape at the Fed begins today.
President Trump is nominating Steven
Meer in the Council of Economic Advisors
chairman to fill Governor Cougler's
seat. She steps down today. She was
supposed to step down in January. This
all comes as Governor Waller emerges as
the top candidate amongst the
president's key advisers to be the next
chair. And in the meantime, the market
continues to digest tariff headlines,
scratching their head what is going on.
Japan is now subject to stacking of
rates potentially and gold bars from
Switzerland from one report are thought
to be exempt. We're now potentially
going to be facing levies. Still,
earnings are fueling this equity market
and stocks are coming into Friday just
shy of a record high. Danny, there's a
lot to get through today. You think we
can move past the tariff uncertainty?
And then you have things like Japan
confused about what's happening with
these rates. Switzerland potentially
those gold bars that have been coming to
United States. Maybe they have to pay
even back fees, which is why you have
changes in the in the gold market in New
York and what's going on in London. And
then all of this emits basically a
changing of the guard at the Fed. And
all of this and a market that shrugs and
goes, "Eh, whatever. We can handle all
of this." It is a market though that is
maybe to what Lorie Calvacina said has
changed from a market that's shoot first
and ask questions later to ask questions
first and then shoot. Maybe it's a
healthy change. But Amarie, what we have
seen is on a headline level, a market
that's really sanguin. I got to say,
some of these moves off the back of
earnings have been huge. Expedia today.
Yesterday it was companies like Lily.
The day before it was Palanteer. So
there are big moves happening. But again
on that surface level it feels like
everything is calm and just shrugging
things off. And Lori Calvina who does a
great job going through every single
earnings report is basically saying I
still see the angst. We haven't moved
forward. But amongst this the market is
also pricing in the fact that we're
going to have a more doubbish Fed. JP
Morgan new note this morning. New Fed
governor new Fed call. Basically, the
direction of travel with the Fed is
going to be an inclination to cut rates.
I love this, though. Getting Myron
approved by the Senate after it gets
back from recess on September 5th, but
before the next FOMC meeting starts on
September 16th, would be a herculean
task. They do note though, no one
thought the one big beautiful bill can
get done before July 4th and signed into
law. So, potentially we will have
another dent in in September. But does
it matter, I guess, is the question. If
already we're having a lot of Fed
governors coming around to the idea of
cuts, I do think there was a little bit
of irony yesterday when Waller got
floated as a name through our excellent
reporting app here at Bloomberg News
that Waller could be a top contender and
you actually saw stocks weaken just a
touch. But they did weaken on this idea
that if you get a Fed governor who's a
Waller, he's maybe not as dovish as a
Kevin Hasset for example. Bond markets
though clearly voted in the favor of
Waller and not in Myin. So there is a
disconnect it seems between the two
markets and how at least in the short
term how they react to the palace
intrigue of the next Fed governor. And
we begin this morning this Friday
morning with stocks moving just a little
bit higher but really just treading more
water. How many times have we said we're
just shy of a record high? We're just
shy. That's exactly where we are.
Michael Hartnett though has a note out
saying investors are pulling money from
US equities and flocking into cash
funds. That's something we're going to
be talking about. Coming up next, we do
have Sevita Subermanian of Bank of
America on why sentiment is just not
euphoric. Monica Guerrero of Morgan
Stanley as Trump chooses Steven Myron
for the Fed Governor spot. And Kelly
Kowski of Mass Mutual looking for a
September rate cut. We begin this hour
with S&P 500 set for a weekly gain.
Sevita Subermanian of Bank of America
writing, "Sentiment is far from
euphoric. The consensus Wall Street
broker is recommending an average
allocation of just 56% to US stocks.
This is not euphoria. Uh Svita joins us
now. Thank you so much. Good morning.
Thanks for thanks for joining us. So if
it's not euphoria, what are we in right
now? What is this world?
>> Yeah, this world feels weird, but I
think we're we're in that sort of wall
of worry stage where there are certain
themes that are getting a lot of
credence and credibility like AI. other
themes are kind of falling out of bed
like GLP1 and then you've got this
potential broadening of the market that
we've all been waiting for with baited
breath that I think is at a moment where
it's it's actually in the works. So if
you if you read the transcripts and I
love Lor's quote um but I think that
when you read the transcripts companies
are worried but they're also talking
about the fact that they've delayed a
lot of projects. They haven't canceled
them. they've delayed them. That means
there's a lot of pent up activity,
business activity in the pipes that is
likely to be unfurled over the next
couple of quarters. And I think what
really stymied that pickup in broadening
and and you know kind of other companies
actually moving from, you know, their
very low uh low multiples and low low
levels is the idea that we're past a lot
of the tariff uncertainty. I mean,
granted, there are curve balls that are
thrown at us every day, but we do know
what's going on with Europe. You know,
we've got a a better handle on how
companies can actually plan and do
business. We're also starting to see, I
think, the beginnings of this M&A cycle,
even crossber M&A. So, I think those are
other animal spirits that could unleash
a broader pickup in economic activity.
And then when we look at things like,
you know, companies reporting, I I think
what's really noteworthy is that at this
point about 80% of companies have beat
on revenue. That's new. We haven't seen
this revenue surprise in a while. So
what that means is that analysts marked
down expectations very low for sales and
demand and they're beating those lowered
expectations. So I I think this all
bodess well for a broader market. I
would stick with large cap value stocks,
companies that are, you know, really in
the penalty box, but could actually
start to work in an environment where,
you know, we do see earnings broaden in
a in a bigger pickup.
>> What happens if you add in rate cuts to
all of that? Is that just jet fuel for
the broadening out and even maybe for
some of the smaller companies?
>> I think it's jet fuel for small caps. I
don't know if large caps need a rate
cut. I mean, the the thing that I like
about the S&P 500 is it's kind of immune
to the Fed because a lot of these stocks
really move more on long rates rather
than short rates. So, I think that, you
know, the refinancing risk is really
firmly in the Russell 2000 rather than
the S&P 500. But I do think that a Fed
cutting rates from these levels would be
sort of a driver for more positive
sentiment on stocks. A shift out of cash
into stocks. Um, if inflation remains
high, I think there's one pocket that
the bulk of individual investors have to
go to. So, think about individual
investors. They're mostly retirees.
They're sitting in big tech stocks and
cash. If cash yields are coming down,
but inflation is still relatively high,
what are you going to do for real yield?
This is where I think that dividends,
cash return, etc. come in. Um, what
worries me a little bit about the big
ballast of the S&P 500, the AI spenders,
is that these guys are becoming more
capital intensive. And that might not be
great for multiples, for cash return,
etc. In fact, we wrote a note this
morning highlighting that the
Magnificent 6, if you take out Tesla, is
growing much more capital intensive and
less R&D focused. And I think that's
something to watch because we're sort of
in the, you know, middle innings, I I
think of an AI spend cycle. And if that
continues, the asset lightness of these
meggaap tech stocks is is potentially
compromised.
>> Your note you have, we are moving from
quote everyone spending on tech to tech
spending on everything. Danny, this is
this has been a story of the entire
quarter.
>> Yeah, it has been the story and it's
been a lot of the reason why it's hard
to be bearish. But I do think this idea
of the business model changing is so
interesting, Sevita, because part of the
thing that people bought tech for was
because they were capital light and you
could get those really high valuations
>> and great growth
>> and free cash flow and all.
>> So is there now a ceiling or will there
start to be a ceiling on multiples on
valuations if it's a different business
model and all of a sudden they're
capital intensive? Well, I think you
need to see the revenue beats for these
companies because if you don't see top
line really accelerate along with capex,
you're cutting into that earnings,
you're cutting into that free cash flow.
We've already seen the total shareholder
return for the Magnificent 6 drop since
2015. We've seen capex to sales pick up.
We've seen R&D to sales decline. It's
all happening. The question is when will
it get priced in? because these stocks
are trading near their all-time highs in
terms of multiples. I think what we
start to see is a trade-off where old
economy stocks are getting all these new
tools to get more efficient, asset
light, labor light, etc. Whereas tech
companies are starting to get more asset
intensive. It's a it's a very sort of
slow burn uh shift or h handing off of
uh of you know multiple expansion to
multiple contraction, but I think it's
something to keep an eye on. When it
comes to policy, we have the one big
beautiful bill. Yes. There is a little
bit more of an understanding what's
going on with tariffs. What are you
waiting for out of Washington? What's
the next shoe to drop?
>> You know, I think right now there's
there not a lot of catalyst and maybe,
you know, the Fed obviously, but I think
that, you know, we're in an environment
where our our near-term outlook on
equities isn't great. I mean, we think a
lot of the good news is priced into the
market. If you look at reactions to
beats, they were pretty good, but
reactions to misses were terrible. In
fact, the worst downdraft to earnings
misses and sales misses in the history
of our data since reggga FD back in
2001. So, this means the good news is
probably more than priced in in the near
term. I do think if we see this
broadening of earnings growth and we see
a pickup in in some of the economic
indicators, maybe the Fed cut is
compromised or a continued cutting cycle
is compromised. But I think that's the
driver for better earnings.
>> And you still think we're going to be at
6,300 year end?
>> So 6,300 is our year-end forecast. I
think it's tricky because we've also got
the midterm elections coming up. So our
12 month forecast, which is probably
more important or or relevant is uh is
really for more like 5% gains from here.
Um I think what's interesting though is
that the years where you've seen the
biggest earnings recoveries haven't
necessarily seen the strongest market
returns. So that's kind of what we're
operating on is the idea that earnings
are coming back. We're exiting a
manufacturing recession, but re, you
know, market returns aren't necessarily
going to be blockbuster.
>> Sevita, thank you so much for your time
this morning.
>> Thank you.
>> That was fantastic. Sevita Subermanian
of Bank of America. Let's get you an
update now on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Lizzie Burton. Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, Amarie. President Donald Trump
tapped Council of Economic Advisors
Chairman Steven Myron to serve as a
temporary Fed governor through January
2026. Trump will continue to look for a
permanent replacement in the interim
with a race to replace the Fed chair
still underway. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that Fed Governor Chris
Waller has emerged as a top candidate
for the role among Trump advisers.
Elsewhere, Intel CEO Lip Boutan says
that he has the full backing of the
company's board as President Donald
Trump calls for his resignation. Tan has
reached out to the White House to clear
up what he called quote misinformation
about his track record, writing in a
letter to staff, quote, I fully share
the president's commitments to advancing
US national and economic security. And
the US Customs and Border Protection
Agency has clarified that gold bars are
subject to tariffs. This according to
people familiar. Gold futures surged to
a record high in New York as traders are
scrambling to understand whether the
tariffs are already in force, if they
apply to all countries, or how they
might be avoided. And that should be my
brief. Amarie, thanks so much, Lizzie.
And Lizzie will back with us in the next
30 minutes. Up next, President Trump's
latest surprise.
>> Governor Waller has really built up a
really impressive track record in the
last few years at the Fed. He's done a
really good job having an independent
voice which I think ultimately uh is
proven correct that there isn't really
much of an inflationary threat from
terrorists. Monica of Morgan Stanley
coming up next. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning and welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. John and Lisa are off
today. I'm joined by Danny Berg and
we're walking watching an equity market
that's looking to close out the week
higher. We're up 3/10en of a percent
this morning, but we really just been
treading water. That's what everyone's
been telling us. There's been a lot of
angst when it comes to what Sevita was
saying, what Lori was saying in terms of
when you actually dig into corporate
earnings reports and get on the calls
with these CEOs. There's still this
feeling of uncertainty in terms of
policy in Washington DC. And I want to
also talk about what's going on with
gold futures this morning. Gold futures
up 6/10en of a percent. Danny, a ton of
confusion on what the tariffs mean with
Switzerland specifically because they
send a lot of gold bars into the United
States and one report saying actually
those gold bars are going to have to
face that higher tariff rate. And the
assumption was that they'd be exempt
even to the point where some people in
this market told Bloomberg that they
weren't even sure whether this was maybe
just a mistake from the Customs and
Border Patrol. I think one thing holds
true and Marie. This clearly means we
need an audit of Fort Knox. I'm upset we
never got it. I want to see Trump and
Jay Powell in hard hats at Fort Knox.
>> I did ask the Treasury Secretary about
this. If you have any plans at any point
to be going to Kentucky and he said no.
And he said any senator can go and they
can go check on it. And you know, he was
pretty emphatic that the gold is all
there. But yeah, this is a good point. A
little bit conspir conspiracy theory,
and I'm sure Twitter loves that, but a
good point. Under surveillance this
morning, President Trump's latest
surprise.
Governor Waller has really built up a
really impressive track record in the
last few years at the Fed. And I think
he's done himself uh, you know, a big
credit recently as as as well. uh you
know not succumbing to the tariff
derangement syndrome that many others uh
throughout the throughout the country
but particularly at the Fed seem to have
succumbed to. He's done a really good
job having an independent voice which I
think ultimately uh is proven correct
that there isn't really much of an
inflationary threat from terrorists.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
tapping Council of Economic Advisors
Chairman Steven who you heard there just
yesterday on Bloomberg TV. He will be
serving as the temporary position for
the Federal Reserve governor through
January of 2026. This is as Fed Governor
Chris Waller, according to our reporting
with SEA Mosen, emerges as a favorite
for the Fed chair among the Trump team.
Bloomberg's Mike McKe joins us now. So
Mike, what do we need to know about
Steve Myron? Because I was just talking
to Neil Dada, Danny and I, in the last
hour and we brought up the point that
actually Steve Myin just under a year
was saying that the Fed would be crazy
to cut rates and now he seems to be a
proponent of it. Well, you got to figure
out uh who he's working for now. That'll
tell you perhaps why he is uh so
doubbish at the moment. The president
has argued that his tariffs won't be
inflationary. So Steven Myron is arguing
that the tariffs won't be inflationary.
And so far we haven't seen a big impact,
but we get CPI on Tuesday and it'll be
very interesting to see if we get some
uh tariff feed through. That's the
question is what is the economy going to
look like? inflation and jobs on
September 17th when the Fed next meets.
If there is a sharp rise in inflation,
then the Fed is going to probably hold
off again. If inflation is under
control, then they may cut. And in
either case, a Myan appointment, uh
assuming the Senate could confirm him by
then, which is unlikely, but a Myan
appointment wouldn't mean a whole lot.
And it just moves you out farther into
the year by the time he takes office.
And then we have to figure out uh where
the economy is. He has in the past, as
you said, argued for uh no rate cuts
when the economy was uh when inflation
was rising and now he's on the other
side in part because his boss is telling
him to.
>> To that point, Mike, and what we've
heard from Fed officials over the past
week, is there a real and sustainable
more dovish shift that would make
Myron's addition to that dovish choir
less relevant?
>> Yes. Uh although I I hesitate to say
sustainable right now. We've heard a lot
of Fed officials this week come out and
say that they think maybe it is time to
consider rate cuts, although they
qualify that by saying let's see where
the data take us by the time we vote
again. But that has been the shift. Now
is it sustainable? That depends on what
the data tell us. If we get a rebound in
jobs in August, then you'll probably see
people back off. If we have more of the
same, then you'll bake in a rate cut.
And again, it would make Myron's vote
somewhat irrelevant. There's been uh
some speculation that he would be a
third descent if the Fed held uh held
itself with without doing another rate
cut. Uh the only thing there is that it
really wouldn't matter very much to Jay
Pal because it would be seen as a vote
politically motivated by the Trump
appointee. So I I don't think he's going
to have a lot of influence in the short
run. He also needs to make sure he gets
that Senate confirmation before the next
meeting if he was to be a third
desenter. Bloomberg's Mike McKe. Thank
you so much. Let's continue the
conversation with Monica Aguera of
Morgan Stanley. Monica, do you think
there's even a possibility he can be on
the Fed by September? Um, it could be
difficult, right? Because they're coming
back into session in se at the end of
August and there's a lot that they're
already working on. So, if you think
about the Senate, they're considering
the 2026 appropriations and budget
bills. So, while we just got through
2025 budget reconciliation, 2026 still
needs to be confirmed and that that's at
the front of order. So, it is a tight
window for him to actually get
confirmed.
>> He's already been confirmed. It was a
partyline vote though, 5346. How
difficult might it be for him this time
around? This time around, I think it's
more about the timing and pace of the
legislation and if they do decide to
actually table um the activity that they
already have scheduled. So, for us, it
is a matter of I think markets are just
waiting, right, to see if they'll
actually get that that confirmation. He
does get confirmed. Yes,
>> he gets confirmed.
>> How much do you look at that though and
judge how easy or difficult other
nominees could be, especially less
conventional ones? Maybe one of the
Kevin will be instructive at all to say
what happens from here for the Fed chair
nomination. So, I can't opine on the Fed
musical chairs. I'll leave that to the
to the economist. Um, but for us, you
know, when we're thinking about the
short run and what's happening in
Congress, you know, we're really focused
on 2026 and moving that ball forward.
So, yes, fixed income markets are really
interested in what's going to happen
with Miran in the short term. In the
short run, we know we're going to get
there. It's just when. And then for us,
it's where do we land on appropriations
and what does that mean from a fiscal
stimulus perspective? Speaking of where
do we land, there's still a lot of
confusion as to where we land with
tariffs. Just the latest confusion has
been one, what's happening with gold
bars and two, what's happening with
Japan? Are tariffs getting stacked? Is
the US taking that back? To what degree
does that demonstrate that even when
these deals and frameworks are reached?
That the story's not done yet.
>> Yeah, the story isn't done. And I I
think you've heard that over and over
again, you know, over the last couple
days and weeks. So what we what we have
landed with is significantly more clear
more clarity right with that 10%
universal plus these additional tariffs
and we do see many of the tariffs being
stacked. So that's my baseline
assumption with Japan. Now with
Switzerland you know to me when I think
about gold this becomes a story of
diversification and really emphasizing
the need to be diversified across your
portfolios. You know this it could come
on it could come off. We don't know the
direction. The thing I always emphasize
with our clients and is that tariffs are
not taxes. The reason why you couldn't
have tariff revenues as a pass through
in the budget reconciliation bill is
because they are so changeable. It's not
a known payer base, right? It's
something that can change and shift. So
it really emphasizes that
diversification story. How are you
thinking about the semiconductors,
pharmaceutical, the sectoral tariffs
we're still waiting to actually get
details on?
>> Yeah. So, we think that they're coming
and we think that they are a part of
this broader growth narrative for 2026.
When we're thinking about um tariffs
just generally, everyone's thinking
about cost level shifting up. But it is
also part of this negotiation tactic and
the attempt to bring industry back to
the United States and keep us
competitive, especially in the tech AI
innovation space. And so, when we're
thinking about growth, this is really a
key part of that component. And so not
only are we expecting increased tariffs
on semis but fiscal spending in the
future.
>> But does it matter if everyone basically
gets an exemption?
>> I mean if everyone gets an exemption
it's on the heels of significant
investment, right? So I don't I don't
think everyone's going to get it. I
think it's going to be a a tradeoff,
right? that if you are actually willing
and it forces the hand to bring that
manufacturing that production to the
United States then it's fulfilling the
ultimate goal of the administration
which is making the US the hub for semis
having more control and national
security component even if you throw
that into into the angle um of our full
supply chain around semis so for me this
is completely a holistic narrative that
makes sense carrot and stick approach
all of this we've discussed we haven't
mentioned China. What's the status of
this deal?
>> I mean, for that's that's anyone's guess
at this at this game, right? For for us,
we're continuing to expect this
throughout the the remainder of the
year. So, I expect negotiations ongoing,
this is one of the areas where I've said
over and over again that while we're
going to get fast conclusion in other
spaces, this is going to have the the
longest run. And that's because of not
just how intimately integrated our
economies are, but that trade deals of
this magnitude take a long time and
people forget that. And so the fact that
we've been running at this pace in the
United States and cutting the deals that
we've been cutting, these are at record
record pace. And so we have to take that
in consideration. It can take up years
in certain cases to get a deal done.
>> Monica, thanks so much for your insight
this morning. Monica Guerrero of Morgan
Stanley. And Danny, you put it well. The
devil's in the details. To Monica's
point, trade deals usually take years.
When you have them this quickly, well,
there might be some chop along the way
when it comes to some of the fine print,
>> especially when what happens is is the
first thing you have is the two leaders
coming together. And you agree on the
framework and not the details. To your
point, Ann Marie, it's usually the
opposite order of what happens. So, do
you get this continued confusion down
the road? It's hard to see any other
circumstance.
>> Yeah, I've been covering both these
administrations back toback. The Biden
administration is very processoriented
from the beginning. Trump, he wants the
shock and awe from the beginning. We
deal with the details later. At the
moment, for some trade, it's working out
in his favor, but there's going to be uh
potentially some chop along the way.
Coming up in the program, former Senate
trade advisor Bruce Hirs to continue
this conversation. Plus, Yah is back
with us with your morning movers,
including Under Armour under pressure,
down more than 13%. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning and happy Friday. I'm Anry
Hordern. John and Lisa are off. Much
deserved break. I'm joined by Danny
Burgerer this morning. What we're
looking at is equity market futures in
the green this morning. Everyone has
been talking about the fact that we are
just treading water. What's the next
catalyst? We're S&P 500 futures are up
3/10en of a percent. Bank of America has
a new note out talking about investors
are pulling money from US equities and
flocking into cash funds. That is
something we caught up with Sevita about
earlier. She says we're not in a
euphoric space right now when it comes
to where equity markets are going. 2
hours away we are right now from the
cash open. Let's look at some of these
individual movers you need to know to
start your day. Here's Yahihara Anan. Hi
Yahara. Hi Anie. We start with the
latest company to report results and
that is Under Armour. Shares are
plunging down 13% after the athletic
wear maker warned sales will drop far
more than what was expected in the
current quarter. This is a company that
like its rival Nike was in the midst of
a turnaround but is now hitting some
roadblocks with those tariffs and a
cautious consumer holding back any
progress that it had made. Next up, we
have another company also falling and
that is Pinterest down 12% here after
earnings fell short of expectations and
it said that user growth in the US and
Canada came in flat, a problem since
North America is its most lucrative
market. It did raise its fullear
outlook, but with the stock up 35% year
to date before reporting the bar was
high and Pinterest just did not clear
it. And we end on the real real. Those
shares are soaring 28% here. It's a big
move on a small stock, but some
interesting trends. The consignment
company had a breakout second quarter
with the CEO saying that tariffs on
luxury goods and rising prices at the
likes of Chanel and Cardier are pushing
shoppers toward pre-owned items. And
it's a sign that even at the high end,
consumers are looking for value. An
Marie Hierra, thanks so much. Yeah,
they're saying that shoppers seek value,
but if you've been into Real Real, it's
still very expensive.
>> Sometimes it's more expensive than
buying something new cuz you know the
whole like fake scarcity of some of
these handbags or not. But hey, good for
the real real
>> and also they have some vintage pieces
where it's like if you don't get it
here, it can't get anywhere else. So,
you got to pay up. All right, on our
radar this morning, President Trump
choosing Council of Economic Advisors
Chairman Steven Myron to serve as Fed
Governor. Trump saying he will do a
quote outstanding job as the search for
a permanent replacement continues. So,
this is the question. Is he actually
temporary or could he move as a
permanent replacement?
>> And that will make the difference for
whether or not this market cares.
Probably at the moment, not a huge
reaction. I mean, a little bit of a
dollar weakening, a little bit of a
curve steepening, maybe some fears over
independence, but overall the board was
already moving in a more dovish re
dovish direction. So, what difference
would a Stephen Myron really make?
>> And he's already been Senate confirmed.
So, we know that even though he might
not be Senate confirmed for September,
he should be in the chair for October.
Now, the Intel CEO is pushing back
against President Trump's call for him
to resign, saying he has the full
backing of the company's board and has
reached out to the White House to clear
up quote misinformation, Danny, about
his track record. The thing about this
is it's causing analysts to look at tech
companies and all companies so
differently. Bernstein had this note
out. Unfortunately, unlike other tech
CEOs, Libu does not appear to have
cultivated the kind of personal
relationship with Trump that would help
assuage his eyeire. All of a sudden,
we're trying to figure out, hey, who's
friends with Trump? Is that going to be
good for the company? Is it going to be
helpful if you're Tim Cook to go and
present a little plaque that is made of
glass and gold to Trump to try to get on
his side? The most absurd one of these,
there was a Regeneron earnings call.
They were part of the people who made
COVID medicine, saying basically, the
president knows me by name and should
like our company because we saved his
life. That is a plus for them.
>> True. Recurring favor of the president
is a is a plus for a lot of companies
and that usually happens whether it's
Republican or Democrat. More pressure
potential though for Intel CEO. Wall
Street Journal says Intel directors have
disagreed with him in his first months
in the role about questions as central
as whether the company should stay in
the manufacturing business or exit it
entirely. So actually for him there
might be some more pressure building up
within the comp the company. Sticking
with President Trump, he's saying he'd
be willing to meet with Russian
President Vladimir Putin soon, even
without Ukrainian President Vladimir
Zalinski present. Trump still leaving
the door open for possible penalties as
well when it comes to Russia. I found
this interesting yesterday because in
the morning we saw the White House
really pushed back on the Kremlin,
saying there doesn't need to be a
meeting with Zalinsky and Putin in order
for Trump and Putin to meet and then
Trump basically reversed that. I think
there's just this real question of what
happens if Trump leaves empty-handed?
What levers does the US still have to
pull? At the moment, it is clear that
this is a White House that believes it
is the economic lever that is the most
important one. We've seen them
pressuring India upping tariffs to 50%
for buying Russian oil. At the moment,
India not really caving into that. If
it's also a Russia that doesn't come to
the table in any sort of meeting, where
does the US go from here?
>> And we're going to stick with trade
right now. Not just what's going on with
India, but also what's going on with
gold. And specifically, this really
points to Switzerland. Gold futures in
New York this morning surging to a
record high after sources telling us at
Bloomberg that Swiss gold bars are
unexpectedly facing US tariffs.
Bloomberg's Oliver Kirk joins us now.
Oliver, what's going on? Are these
tariffs going to stick?
Yeah, I mean if the Swiss needed any
more bad news, which I don't think they
really did, they got it overnight saying
that basically, you know, a part of the
gold market that they thought was going
to be exempted, which is sort of smaller
Swiss um gold bars that are about, you
know, 100 ounces to 1 kilogram, those
are actually now going to face tariffs.
And you've seen the reaction within the
markets at a time when we had the Swiss
president going to Washington DC,
failing to speak to basically anybody on
the Trump trade team, only getting a
meeting with Marco Rubio, coming back to
Switzerland and having this emergency
meeting with a bunch of businesses. We
spoke to some of these sort of um
representatives of businesses to
Switzerland. And I think that that the
takeaway is that they really are at this
point at the mercy of the Trump
administration. There was some
discussions of how they could possibly
retaliate, maybe cancelling their uh
orders for F-35s. you've got an order
for 36 of those worth billions of
dollars, but really they can see they
see that as only sort of worsening the
situation. So again, in a week that you
had really colossally bad news for the
Swiss, they're stuck with that 39%
tariff. Um, and so you're going to see
it in the gold market obviously for
watches. You guys were talking about
luxury a little bit earlier, but also
Nestle. Nestle is down 20% over the last
month because all of the Nespresso
capsules in the world are made in three
plants and they're all in Switzerland.
>> I thought you were about to say that
Nespresso capsules are made with gold
and I was going to be shocked and go out
and buy some. I'm glad that's not the
case, Oliver. But to your point,
Switzerland considering retaliation.
Maybe they won't do it as no other
countries have. But what about a carrot,
Oliver? What could Switzerland possibly
offer this administration to get them to
back down from the most severe of tariff
rates?
>> Yeah, Danny. I mean, it might just be
one of these sort of pay-to-play
situations that you saw, you know, out
of Japan that committing to that
hundreds of billions of dollars worth of
funding to basically go to Trump what
Trump says, whatever I want. same thing
that you got from the EU. That might be
the route that they have to go. I think
that basically what you saw is this is
an administration, the Swiss, they
thought they had a deal with Donald
Trump. They thought they had it all
locked and loaded. I had spoken to the
president a couple of months ago. She
was feeling very good about that and
then suddenly that was not the case. I
think he saw basically how big the
deficit was, realizes how rich as a
nation Switzerland is and was really
very unhappy about that in turn. And so
I think it's going to probably be, you
know, at some point, unless they find
some other creative way, they tried to
show up in Washington DC, it might be
just a function of writing a check,
which seems to solve many of the
problems with the Trump administration.
>> Oliver, thanks so much for that.
Bloomberg's Oliver Crook. And to that
point, this is what our next guest has
to say. We're joined by former chief
international trade counsel for the
Senate Finance Committee, Bruce Hirs.
And he writes, "Our trading partners
have had to adjust to the idea that
these deals need to include offers to
purchase specific US goods or commit to
invest in the United States. The bigger
the number, the better." Bruce, thank
you so much for joining us. This is
exactly what Danny and Oliver were just
getting at. The issue I have with this
premise for Switzerland is that they are
top five foreign direct investor already
into the United States.
Well, they they certainly are and we
have a close trading relationship with
them, but we also have a trade deficit
with them and a large part of that
deficit is on pharmaceuticals and
pharmaceuticals is one of the areas of
great concern to President Trump. He
wants to onshore that manufacturing. So,
he's going to look at that deal perhaps
a little bit differently than he looks
at some of the others. Um, also he's,
you know, really been counting on our
trading partners to reduce their tariffs
to close to zero. And that's difficult
politically for a country like
Switzerland to do on agricultural
products.
>> So what do you think Switzerland can
offer at this point given the fact that
Oliver just outlined how difficult these
negotiations have become?
>> Well, I mean there's the possibility
that they'll make some very tough
decisions on on agricultural tariffs. Um
beyond that um you know if there have
any other investments in the bank uh to
uh to to put on the table here um that
probably is going to be critical. I
mean, I I I suspect that President Trump
is looking for some sort of investments
in in domestic manufacturing here of
pharmaceuticals because that again is is
what he cares about, but it's it's hard
to say and they really are between a
rock and a hard place.
>> Bruce Anaries have done really great
reporting on this that it did look like
the Swiss and the US had a deal before
all of this unraveled. It's a less
traditional type of negotiation that you
need to satisfy the president himself
rather than a coalition of stakeholders
or the Senate itself. You've been in the
room under more traditional trade
frameworks. How does it change the
negotiation when you're really trying to
favor a party of one instead of more
stakeholders?
>> Well, it's going to lead to a bit of
confusion on both sides of the table
because I mean, as you mentioned, at one
point the question was how do you
satisfy Congress? Um, they're the ones
who have to approve the deal at the end
of the day. the you know groundwork will
have been done uh with Congress with
stakeholders to develop a US position
consultations will continue you have a
good sense of what you need to do now
you're trying to satisfy a party of one
and uh because President Trump has a
number of objectives and they can shift
uh you know whether it's revenue or
industrial policy or leverage for trade
or non-trade objectives you you just
don't know so both sides are at the
table and they're trying to figure out
what will satisfy President Trump and
they're not really quite sure
>> well to that point we're in this
environment where it has then figure out
the top line of the deal first and then
the details later. Bruce, to what degree
does that actually give the US more
leverage as things progress? The fact
that we don't have these details and it
is something that Washington can push
back on because you don't have the
details in the fine print yet.
>> Well, you know, it certainly gives the
opportunity for leverage. It also gives
the opportunity to to disrupt the deals
that you've just cut. Um, you know,
we've already seen in some of the the
deals um both with the EU and Japan, you
know, they're concerned about when
certain parts of the deal with regard to
uh section 232 national security
sectoral tariffs when they're going to
be implemented. They were expecting them
to be implemented right away and that
hasn't happened. So, yes, it gives
leverage, but you know, the question is
at what cost and would it will it blow
up the deal? Um, so it's a it's a it's a
great challenge. Um it it also sort of
undermines a lot of what uh these
countries are looking for and what the
markets are looking for which is
stability because to the extent that
there are the things like that there's
there are these opportunities to disrupt
the deals by continuing to push after
the top line has been agreed to you know
that can undermine the that that sense
of stability that everybody is seeking.
>> Modi is looking for stability right now.
Bruce, what's going on with India and
that trade negotiation?
Well, again, this really highlights the
the fact that the deals are made at the
top and uh you know, we had a situation
in which the negotiators are right up to
the cabinet level thought they had a
deal with India. It was presented to
President Trump and he looked at it
eventually and decided not enough. Uh
again, a lot of countries are going to
zero. India wasn't willing to go to zero
on uh their agricultural goods and so he
just said no. And um this is going to
create a real challenge um for a number
of reasons. uh you know he we have to
India's going to have to make some tough
choices potentially um they may have to
themselves cut a check of some sort but
politically it's very difficult for
prime minister Modi because he presents
himself as a strong leader and uh having
to appear to cave uh to pressure is
really going to be very difficult for
him u either on these tariffs or on the
relationship with Russia so it's going
to be a challenge on that one
>> and he's even go out with the rhetoric
saying this is going to be challenging
but I'm going to have to do it. He
doesn't want to cave at this moment. Uh
we're going to be watching those trade
negotiations very carefully. Former
chief international trade council for
the Senate Finance Committee, Bruce
Hirs, thank you so much for joining us.
Let's get you an update now on stories
we're watching elsewhere. Here's Lizzie
Burden with your Bloomberg brief. Hey,
Lizzie. Hey, I'm Marie. Bank of
America's Michael Hartner has issued
some concerns that sweeping tariffs are
crimping economic growth and leading
investors to pull money from US equities
and flock into cash funds. According to
EPFR global data, nearly $28 billion was
redeemed from US stocks in the week
through August 6th, while money market
funds attracted about $107 billion, the
biggest inflows since January.
Elsewhere, Firefly shares climbing after
its initial public debut. The shares
closing at over $60 per share on
Thursday versus the initial price of $45
each. This marking the next evolution
for a company that survived bankruptcy
to develop its own rocket fleet and
successfully land a private spacecraft
on the moon. And Tesla is disbanding its
dojo supercomput team dojo system that
was used to train the machine learning
models behind the electric vehicle
makers autopilot and full self-driving
programs as well as its Optimus humanoid
robot. Peter Bannon, who was heading up
dojo, is leaving and chief executive
officer Elon Musk has ordered the effort
to be shut down. And that's your boat
brief. I'm Marie. Thanks so much,
Lizzie. Up next on the program, betting
on the Fed.
>> President Trump keeps talking about that
we're the hottest country ever. Look, I
agree with him, but what he seems to be
implying is we're the best credit
rating, so we should have the lowest
interest rates. That's not how you set
sovereign yields.
>> For more on that conversation, Kelly
Kowalsski of Mass Mutual coming up next
on the program. and you're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
[Music]
Good Friday morning. I'm Amber Herd
alongside Danny Burgerer this morning.
If you're looking for any concern or
uncertainty in the markets this morning,
it's not going to be in the equity
market. It's not even going to be in the
bond market. Look at what's going on in
gold futures in New York. Up nearly
7/10en of a percent. If you woke up this
morning, you're now realizing from the
US Customs and Border Protection. They
are clarifying that 1 kilogram and 100
ounce gold bars are now subject to
reciprocal tariffs enacted by the
president. Danny, gold bars were
supposed to be exempt. It is another
case where we have been surprised by
some change in the tariff policy. Last
week it was copper. All of a sudden they
got exempt and it caused a crash in this
market. At the time I had spoken to
Julian Emanuel of Evercore who said it
is evidence that this is a market that
is unprepared that some of these tariff
moves can cause bar shocks that spill
into other assets. We're not seeing that
with gold at the moment. But still his
point stands. Are we complacent? Are we
ready for a fastchanging trade
narrative?
>> Right. Could there be more surprises
coming down the pipeline? Especially
since you said earlier we have these
shock and awe big topline deals, but
then when you work into the details,
actually things might get a little bit
more confusing and complicated. Sticking
what's going on in Washington and policy
uncertainty under surveillance this
morning, betting on the new Fed.
President Trump keeps talking about that
we're the hottest country ever. Look, I
agree with him, but what he seems to be
implying is we're the best credit
rating, so we should have the lowest
interest rates. That's not how you set
sovereign yields. That's how you price a
a mortgage on Trump Tower in Manhattan.
Uh the way you set sovereign yields is
the combination of growth, inflation
expectations, and supply should
determine kind of a natural or neutral
interest rate.
>> Here's the latest. Traders holding on
their bets for a September rate cut as
President Donald Trump makes his mark on
the Federal Reserve. Kelly Kowalsski of
Mass Mutual writing, quote, "It is
likely that the Fed will cut in
September. Inflation still puts the Fed
in an uncomfortable position to be
cutting interest rates and could limit
the number of cuts into year end. Kelly,
thank you so much for joining us. Right
now, we've seen the market really start
to expect a September cut after that
weaker than expected jobs print and the
revisions, but what if we get two CPI
prints that are hot before September?
>> That's a great question, Anarie. Thanks
for having me. You know, I think as we
look at what, you know, Chair Pal said
in June, he characterized the labor
market as solid, and we know that's no
longer the case. Uh, I think it's going
to take a very high bar and probably
very significant readings in inflation
for us to really see that 90%
probability of a cut in September come
down. Um, but at the same time, you hear
a tone from the Fed that they think that
this pickup in inflation is going to be
temporary, dare I use the word,
transitory. So, I think as long as we,
you know, sort of continue to see that
prioritization of the labor market and
that tone of sort of looking through
inflation, um, that we will see that cut
in September.
>> Given the fact that the market is
already pricing in the September cut,
does it matter if Trump's new pick,
Steve Meyer, is there or not?
>> Yeah, I'm not sure how much he really
moves the needle. We knew it was some
somebody that's going to be uh more on
the dovish side. He certainly has some
rather unconventional um and radical
views on policy. Um but I think the
markets are more f going to be focused
on ultimately you know who the chair
will be.
>> In terms of what we've heard from Fed
officials at this moment, Kelly, over
the past week, the ones who've turned
more dovish. It seems like those among
daily even Kashkari are talking more
about adjustment, getting somewhere
closer to neutral, not downright
accommodative. What does that mean in
terms of just how much risk can rally
off the back of more Fed cuts?
>> Yeah. Well, you know, when I look at
sort of where we are in terms of call it
the real fund Fed funds rate, we are
around the same levels where we were at
the end of 2024 when we were adding, you
know, two 200,000 300,000 jobs. So
there, you know, there is some validity
to um we are a bit restricted
restrictive now given the economic
environment. Um, I think the market is
looking to these cuts as somewhat of a
cushion, but at the bottom line, it's
really coming down to the fundamentals,
the corporate earnings, and it appears
that, you know, we're in credit markets.
We're certainly seeing credit markets
focus more on, you know, the underlying
company fundamentals and the technical
picture as well.
>> Well, to that point, just looking at the
flows in Bank of America's latest
report, looking at EPFR data, they noted
that you are starting to see a backout
or at least a slowing down of flows into
US equities. There was an outflow there
over the past week, but it is credit
that continues to look so strong. Kelly,
the stat they have is that IG and high
yield bond funds drew the most since
June of 2020. What do you make of that
continued demand even if some of the
other risk assets start to slow
>> it? Yeah, it is certainly not an easy
position as a as a credit portfolio
manager right now. you know, we look at
credit spreads which are, you know, a
perceived measure of of credit risk in
the market and those are at the same
level um in investment grade and high
yield markets where they effectively
started the year. So, if you look at all
the changes we had and you say we're at
the same level, you know, that's
somewhat that's that's very surprising
uh to anyone. It's really the technical
trends that that is driving that. You
have a lot of yield demand. We call it
yield buyers particularly in the long
end and a lot of the issuance around
sort of the COVID postcoid time where uh
borrowers issued shorter that's all
coming due so it all needs to be
reinvested and the question is when are
we ever going to see sort of that strong
technical demand uh decline and so far
we haven't even with the IG credit index
uh falling below 5% we had deals this
past Monday that were five times overs
subscribed
>> so if some of the credit demand we're
seeing in the spreads being really tight
is for a technical reason. Kelly, what
does that mean about the credit market's
ability to be the canary in the coal
mine? You've seen that in price past
crises or past moments of stress where
first it's credit spreads that widen and
that goes into the stock market. Will
that not be the case this time because
of this almost mechanical tightening of
spreads?
>> Yeah, I think I think that's a great
point and there's definitely some
distortion there because of those yield
buyer components. If you do look however
in in for example the triple C market
which is the weakest part of high yield
those spreads are you know at the wides
you know much wider than where they were
uh ear earlier this year. So you are
sort of seeing that risk priced in but
that's in the much lower rated parts of
the market and we continue to see just
you know really strong demand for
investment grade uh and sort of the
higher quality uh pieces of credit. What
about some of those sectors that are
dealing with the on andoff concern of
what's going on with tariffs?
>> Yeah, so we, you know, we are really uh
being intentionable intentional about uh
which sectors were involved in
especially in this environment
especially when you think about our sort
of direct lending portfolio for example
of you know smaller companies really
staying away from consumer anything that
really has uh a more cyclical component.
Um, so I, you know, it's certainly a a
time when you want to really think about
your sector exposure and the the total
macro environment.
>> Kelly, thanks so much for your time this
morning. Kelly Kowalsski of Mass
Neutral. Danny, what's so difficult
about this moment right now, a ton of
headlines going on, but you have to say
really to Kelly's point, sector specific
because also what we are still waiting
on from this White House is sector
specific tariffs on top of those on top
of those reciprocal rates. I'd say one
of the remarkable things though is since
the nadier of this market in April,
every single sector is higher except for
healthcare and I think it is those
sectoral tariff concerns but even things
>> pharmaceuticals exactly but even things
like consumer discretionary I think
they're higher by more than 24% since
the bottom and this is a sector that
there are real fears of will there be
price increases that pressures the
consumer can they hold on to their
margins still it's higher since the
bottom
>> that's a question and we'll be focusing
on that as well coming up in the next
hour. Another hour of Bloomberg
surveillance. Julie Beiel of Kain
Anderson Runnik. John Vin of Key Bank
Capital Markets. Kathy Bostic of
Nationwide. And Colin Martin of Charles
Swab. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance. You don't want to miss
another hour. Danny and I will be back.
Good morning.
[Music]
There's still a ton of uncertainty
within the market to come. The market
just keeps moving sort of relentlessly
higher.
>> Stay long the S&P is almost impossible
to beat.
>> There's incredible dynamism. Investors
want exposure to that around the world.
For the US to outperform from here, you
essentially need to argue that we're
going off, you know, into the unknown.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anarie Hordern.
>> Good morning from New York City. For our
audience worldwide, I'm Anmarie Hordern.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Danny
Burgerer joins me today. John and Lisa
are off as we look to close out the
week. The market is pricing in a
September rate cut and the president of
course now getting his first opportunity
to put his stamp on the Fed this term.
And we have Cougler stepping down today.
Steve Meyer he has says is going to take
that seat. Of course, there's questions
about whether or not how quickly you can
get him into the seat, but it might not
matter given the market is already
pricing in a September cut. Next week
will be key whether or not the market
will continue to price in a September
cut, Danny, because next week we get US
inflation data
>> and it will be one of only two inflation
data prints that we're going to be
getting before the next Fed decision.
Hence why all of this data in the run-up
to it is so important. There was this
narrative though that evolved last week
after the really poor jobs data. this
question that came up is the employment
trend worrying enough that this is a
committee who can go ahead and cut
regardless of what CPI is. But if we get
prints like we had from ISMS earlier,
then it's an issue. ISM services data
really weak, but prices paid the highest
since October of 2022. Does the data
show that maybe there's a stagflationary
bend to where this economy is headed?
potentially and the ISM data definitely
is showing that and that is why CPI next
week is going to really important.
There's one more job sprint to CPI
reports before we get the next Fed
meeting. Futures this morning just once
again shy from an all-time high as they
start to digest a lot of what's going
on. There's another big story to focus
on today. Not everything is just about
the data and what's going on with the
palace intrigue in the Fed. Trade
stories, the shock and all from the
White House. Then you look into the
details. Then you have the consumer um
consu uh the uh customs and bureau
statistics come out and say actually
this is where the tariffs are placed now
gold futures there was supposed to be an
exemption on gold bars coming into the
United States Danny and now actually you
have to pay that higher rate and a lot
of these gold bars come from
Switzerland.
>> Yeah, this gold market's been through a
lot from the start of this year of
everyone loading up planes with gold
bars trying to get it over to the US
because there have been a premium. Now,
reporting from our team suggests that
Asian refiners of gold aren't even
shipping gold to the US anymore because
there is so much confusion. It's gold
bars today. Last month, it was copper
getting an exemption that caused the
market to crash. It shows that there are
differences in terms of how we interpret
the trade negotiations and the different
tariff rates that do cause fissures in
this market. And I think it's important
as an investor, you have to take the cue
from the president when it comes to his
truth social, but then to really
understand the details, what's going on
with trade. You have to look at what the
Customs and Border Protection is
actually putting out because they're the
ones that are changing the computers at
the border. And that's part of the
confusion. For example, there was this
whole brewhaha over Japan and if tariffs
would be stacked and just how much they
were paying. Well, the Japanese has come
out and said, "Oh, the US told us it was
a mistake and they're going to rectify
it." I'm not sure we've totally heard
from the US side whether or not it's a
mistake. So different parties are saying
different things. Who do you trust?
Where do you go to try to navigate
headwinds from here? And until it's
changed, you're paying those tariffs.
Coming up in the program, Julie Beiel of
Kane Anderson RDNick with stocks sitting
near record highs. John Vin of Key Bank
Capital Markets as Intel defends its CEO
to the White House and Kathy Bastantic
on of Nationwide on why the Fed could
cut 75 basis points this year. And we
begin this hour with stocks holding near
record highs. Julie Beal of Kane
Anderson RDNick writing, "I'm really
struck by how struck by how companies
are figuring out how to manage not just
with tariffs but also with the
uncertainty that more can come." Julie
joins us now. Julie, a lot of investors
said the tariff story is behind us. We
had the lows of April. The market has
rallied some 30% since those lows. And
then we talked to someone like Lorie
Calvacina who goes through all the
earnings report and she says, "I still
see a lot of angst. How much angst is
out there when it comes to this trade
story?
>> I think there's still a lot of angst. I
think most of the angst is really
targeted towards we don't really know
what to do about it. We don't know what
the actual rules and parameters are
going to be and we also know that even
once we do know that it can change
really quickly. That's where I'm seeing
the most angst. But what I am also
seeing is a lot of companies just trying
to figure out and scotch tape together
some kind of supply chain plan in the
interim that is allowing them to still
meet the still strong consumer demand.
So I think overall the underlying
businesses are good. I think CFOs are
trying to be a little bit thoughtful and
a little bit careful in terms of giving
themselves some breathing room so that
if tariffs do become more of a problem
that they're not going to get dinged for
it as hard as if they have problems
within their core fundamental business.
>> What parts of the market and industries
are really digesting this turn the best?
I I think that you know in most of the
places where you're talking about
services you're seeing companies having
no problem really because they're not as
impacted by tariffs. They are in some
cases and I think there is still some
concern that the US is an exporter of
its services and so there's some fear
that there will be something reciprocal
that could happen. You can hear that in
a lot of the earnings calls. There's a
certain ciness about that. I think that
in general manufacturing has been a
place that has been so negatively
impacted and the thing is it was already
weak to begin with and so those are the
companies that really are uncertain how
to incorporate tariffs. Do they let the
margins drift downwards or do they try
to take more pricing for the time being?
We're lucky that we're in a time period
where margins are at record highs for
most companies. So they're they seem to
be willing to digest and eat it for the
time being. But I think if tariffs
accelerate from here or increase
materially in their cost structure, then
I think more pricing is going to happen.
>> Julie, it's not just that that CEOs have
to contend with. The rhetoric has
stepped up or at least continued of this
White House being very willing to call
out CEOs. Yesterday it was the Intel
CEO. The day before it was Bank of
America and JP Morgan. Earlier in the
year it was Walmart. How does that twist
introduce the differences of how CEOs
should be reacting? Especially when you
think about their commentary on earnings
calls. Does that mean that we're seeing
more reserve CEOs, more careful CEOs
knowing that they could have an audience
in the White House? Absolutely. I think
and that is a strange effect that we're
kind of in uncharted waters at least for
modern times to have this level of
scrutiny, right? It wasn't just like
most recently, right? Remember when
Amazon was talking about including their
tariffs and then getting absolutely
browbeing? Most companies are taking as
low a profile as they can. They're
trying to talk about tariffs in a way
that is not critical. Even though I
think many of them can recognize that
it's created a whole lot of friction in
the system and increase costs for them.
I think the big challenge for them is
that they have to start being able to
incorporate it and recognize that it's
going to either be problematic for their
business in terms of hitting their
earnings or you're going to see more
pricing pressure. And that's actually a
pretty tricky place to be in for many
CEOs. I think most of them are just
doing everything they can to keep a very
low profile to talk about tariffs as
it's it's something that's not
necessarily a bad thing. Um, and I I
think that that's weird, right? Because
in our discussions with management teams
when we sit down with them many of them
are sort of rolling their eyes and
saying it's just really hard to manage
from here.
>> How much of it is also a reticence to
discuss it Julie because of the absolute
punishment of companies this quarter who
talk about tariffs. You can have AMD for
example have really good earnings but
then flag that they don't know what's
happening with China and their stock
craters. How much of it is because they
see some of those executives expressing
that uncertainty or doubt and their
stock gets punished for it?
>> You are not getting paid for
transparency. That is for sure. Right.
Like so I think that they're trying to
thread this needle of being forgiven if
tariffs end up being a bigger problem
for them in their guidance and they miss
it. So they're trying to create space
for themselves, but at the same time
keep as low a profile as possible and
try to stay out of the lens of Trump. I
think it's really important for many of
them to just not be visible in any way,
shape, or form. And you're right, it's
not even just Trump. It's it's really
all of it. They they really know that
the market is being very sensitive to
who are going to be the winners and who
are going to be the losers. And I think
that that's kind of the challenge for
many of them.
>> As we are in the middle of earning
season, Julie, I know you put out in
this note, is small caps ever going to
perform? Are they? Who do you like?
I I look I think that we're you know the
good thing about small caps is one
they're cheap and two they've had almost
two years of weaker earnings as a result
of tariffs and not being able to have
the same pricing power as large cap. But
within small cap we are seeing
businesses that have actually been
resilient that have matched the kind of
growth curves of large cap and most of
them are faster growers than large cap.
Right? If I take out the MAG 7 from S&P
earnings for the rest of the year, we're
kind of looking at low to mid
singledigit growth for large cap, the
S&P 493 or whatever it is we're calling
it. Small cap is easier comps and it's
much cheaper. So name that I really like
is Simpson. Uh that's a company that's
really been able to figure out how to
work through tariffs. The metric is in
healthcare. What I'm looking for are
companies that are not going to be
negatively impacted by AI that are doing
real analog things that can't be
replaced, but also are companies that
have that resilience in their earnings.
So, it's strange, but industrials and
healthcare are kind of places where I'm
seeing more opportunity and the
valuations are pretty compelling.
>> So, sounds like at some point you think
they can perform well. Julie Beal, thank
you so much for your time this morning.
That's Julie Beal of Kane Anderson RDN.
Let's get you an update now on other
stories we're watching elsewhere. Here's
your Bloomberg brief with Lizzie Burton.
Hey Lizzie, good morning.
>> Hey Amarie, good morning. Under Armour
shares are plunging in the pre-market.
The sports retailer forecast worse than
expected sales for the current quarter
with revenue expected to fall between 6
and 7% more than double what analysts
were projecting. The results underscore
that the turnaround efforts Under Armour
is undergoing are showing signs of
stalling. Elsewhere, Meta has picked
Pimco and Blue Owl to lead a $29 billion
financing for its data center expansion
in rural Louisiana. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg that Pimco is
expecting to lead a $26 billion debt
portion of the financing while Blue Owl
is providing $3 billion of equity.
Representatives for Meta, Pimco, and
Blue declined to comment. And OpenAI is
rolling out a new AI model called GPT5,
which is designed to be more capable at
coding and creative writing as well as
reasoning through complex queries. CEO
Sam Alman called the new model a major
upgrade, saying it really feels like
talking to an expert in any topic. It'll
be made widely available to all free
users. And that should be my brief.
Amarie, thank you so much, Lizzie, for
that slightly concerning news. Up next
this morning, calls from John Vif of Key
Bank Capital Markets as tensions soar
between Intel and the White House.
That's next. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
investors have wrapped their heads
around the idea that tariffs are here to
stay. I think it's also a question at
this point in time, how does that filter
through, you know, not just with the
rates themselves, not just with
inflation, but also with demand.
Companies have been talking a lot about
mitigation. Some of them have alluded to
the idea that they're still figuring out
some of those plans. So, you know, I
think we had a big shock back in the
second quarter. Corporates reacted and
they're kind of coming back down to
earth and digesting still.
>> Tariffs are here to say, as Lori Calvina
told us earlier, RBC capital markets and
you can see that today when you look
crossasset on what is going on in
financial markets. Yes, S&P 500 futures
up nearly 3/10en of a percent, but it's
New York gold where all the action is up
7/10en of a percent. And this comes
after everyone initially thought gold
bars coming to United States would have
this exemption especially when it comes
to the sw with Switzerland and then the
customs and border protection actually
clarified that they are going to be
subject to reciprocal tariff rate and I
think it's notable that it's coming from
customs they're the ones saying this
this is coming as a surprise because
it's not something we heard from the
president from the Swiss from anywhere
else it just underscores the confusion
when you have these deals that are
reached that are just the top line first
details later these things can pop up to
the point where there were analysts who
spoke to Bloomberg saying, "We're not
sure if this is just a mistake from the
Customs Border Patrol and something that
will be reversed."
>> Potentially, we are going to get more
information about this. Maybe a
clarification from the White House and
whether or not these tariffs are on or
off. And it also comes at a time when
Switzerland is still trying to get a
deal with this White House.
>> Yeah. To your point, you've done such
good reporting on this that the Swiss
did seem to have a deal before we had
the day that tariffs were announced. But
even if you have a deal, Anmarie, it
doesn't necessarily mean that things are
smooth sailing. We learned that from
Japan, which overnight was complaining
that it looks like tariff rates are
being stacked. It's hitting those auto
manufacturers really hard. Japan has
said that the US is walking that back.
But are they really? How long does it
take to rectify and will there be
reimbursements for those who have
suffered? As Lorie said, still a lot of
angst right now when it comes to tariff
policy. Time now for the morning calls.
First up this morning, Morgan Stanley
cutting its price target on Eli Liy to
$1,028, citing a lower bull case for the
company's weight loss pill, though the
stock is up more than 1% today. Next up,
Wells Fargo raising its price target on
Instacart to $55.
Instacart this morning up nearly 10%.
They're citing healthy margins despite a
drop in average order values. And
finally, Melius raising its price target
on Apple to 260, pointing to new
products and increased value in iPhones.
We want to stick with tech right now.
Intel CEO saying he has the full support
of the board with President Trump
calling for his res resignation. Mandy
Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence joins us
now. That's what they're saying out
loud. Wall Street Journal has a report
that actually he has been under pressure
from the board as well when it comes to
how the direction of travel should go
when it comes to Intel. Do you think he
can keep his seat?
>> Well, right now it's clear that there is
a disagreement between the board and his
strategy. He wants to keep the foundry
business. Uh the chairman of the board
feels they should be divesting the
foundry business. And look, I think uh
the Walden International Connection
where Walden is a VC firm in China that
has investments in almost 70 companies.
Some of them are on the entity list. It
it kind of begs the question you know
how did he take the top job at Intel
given he was still the chairman of
Walden International and it's not just
you know one or two investments I mean
they are pretty big in China so from
that perspective I do think there will
be pressure in terms of explaining
exactly what the board knew and you know
why they went uh with him etc. But it
turnarounds are tough. You know, in this
case, Intel didn't have a choice. They
tried almost, you know, a decade to fix
their manufacturing. They had three or
four CEO changes. So, a lot happened in
between and uh clearly uh there are
still no signs of turnaround and so from
that perspective there aren't a lot of
choices for Intel to have a new CEO who
can really come up with a turnaround
strategy.
>> I say Li Bhutan's only been there since
March. just how much of a setback would
it be if this is a company that decides
they need to hunt for a new CEO?
>> I mean big one because he clearly has
the credentials both on the you know VC
side as as somebody who has invested in
startups as well as he's deeply
technical with semiconductor experience.
So he really was the right person for
the job and it's too early to judge his
strategy. He's focused more on cost
controls right now. But I think uh
something like this kind of makes it
hard for him to pursue a foundry
turnaround. And to me foundry is
critical to Intel. If you divest foundry
then uh the company will be broken up
and it just doesn't have the same kind
of cache that it has had over the last
four decades. I mean so foundry is
integral to Intel.
>> Mandep thanks so much. Mandep Singh of
course of Bloomberg intelligence joining
us this morning. And we want to stick
with Intel. John Vin of Key Bank has a
sector weight rating on Intel's shares.
John joins us now. John Mandepa is
really outlining here that it's not just
the president of the United States. He
might be the final nail in the coffin,
but actually there is the board that's
pushing back on the CEO's strategy right
now when it comes to Intel. Do you think
he can stay in the top position?
>> Um, I think he can. Right. I think if if
you kind of take a step back there
there's only a handful of executives out
there that are capable of leading Intel
and clearly during the search he was
their top pick right he was on the board
of Intel's deeply familiar with the
challenges that they had he's um had a
lot of success historically he's been um
successfully run cadence so I I think
he's you know I think there's a lot of
noise going on right now but you you
know, taking a step back. Um, he's he's
the right person to kind of run Intel at
this point.
>> He's the right person, John. But what
happens if it's a White House that is
unsatisfied? If he stays on as CEO, just
how painful could they make things for
Intel?
>> Yeah, I think he's got to learn to to
kind of manage up, if you will, to to
the White House. Uh, obviously this is a
uncharted territory for public company
CEOs. if you are uh singled out by the
president of the United States. But yes,
that this would be uh extremely
difficult if he doesn't uh figure out
how to how to kind of manage up to the
White House. You know, a big beneficiary
that Intel is is of the of the chips
act, right? They're going to get a
significant amount of funding um from
the US government to support their
manufacturing initiatives. And if he's
not willing to uh play nice and manage
uh manage up, you know, a lot of that
funding could be at uh at risk.
>> Well, he wrote a note uh made it public
as well, basically saying that they're
trying to work with the White House to
alleviate any concerns. John, what would
it look like to manage up? How would
Intel get out of the situation in the
eye of the president that they have
right now?
Yeah, I think at this point I I think
the tension between the administration
and Lipu right now is uh how much
they're willing to commit to
manufacturing the US. Uh I think if you
look at Lipu's predecessor Pat, he kind
of maybe was a little bit too aggressive
in terms of building out capacity uh to
manufacture in the US. He was in the of
the mindset of if we build out this
capacity, they will come. Lipu as we've
seen has taken a much more disciplined
approach at spending. He's he's come out
and he said, you know, we are very
excited about our next process node 14A,
but we are going to be much more
disciplined about it, right? If if 14A
doesn't pan out um as as we'd like. Uh
I'm not ready at this point to fully
commit to to 14A, which is leading ed
manufacturing in the US. So, I think
he's got to carefully choose his words
and commit uh communicate to the White
House that he's fully committed to US
manufacturing, but he's got to be very
careful about uh committing, you know,
the the the full amount there and just
be very careful about how he selects his
words. John, how can be he be explicit
to the president of United States when
the Wall Street Journal this morning is
saying that he and some Intel directors
have disagreed about simple questions as
whether or not the company should stay
in the manufacturing business or exit
entirely? Doesn't he need to shore up
his own company, the directors, the
board before he starts making
matterof-act statements to the president
of the United States?
>> Yes. Um I do agree that he's got to kind
of figure out also how to manage the
board, but um it's not a surprise that
they are having differences, but I I
think this is why they needed to bring
him in. You know, Pat um the previous
CEO had the full support of the board
and obviously that strategy wasn't
working. So they had to bring somebody
in to kind of change up the strategy.
And I think that's that's what the board
and Levu are going through right now.
they're going through some of those uh
growing pains.
>> John, I would love to get your read on
the wider chip sector now that we've had
some of the earnings under our belt. It
was an AMD that was punished for for
voicing uncertainty when it comes to
whether or not they'll be able to sell
some of their key technology in China.
You had the likes of NXP, for example,
saying they were uncertain of how much
of a pull forward they had in terms of
orders. Just how much clarity do you
have on the sector as a whole for where
we move from here with some of these
tensions still very front and center?
Yeah, there clearly a lot of crossurrens
right now. I I think the trend that we
are seeing um last night we had market
ship which was a a great print. Uh
stocks down um 8% pre-market today. I
think what we're seeing right now is it
doesn't matter how good your print is
and how good your results and guidance
is. Uh everything's getting sold in this
market. I think people are very nervous
that a lot of the strong results that
we're getting in this environment is a
function of pull forward demand related
to tariffs. Uh I think there's a lot of
concerns that this could result in a
weaker second half. There's a lot of
concerns that this could undermine kind
of the cyclical recovery that we're
seeing in the broader uh chip sector.
And then on top of that, right, you've
got these uh geopolitical uncertainty
that is layering on top of that. Right?
Just the other day, just in the middle
of the earnings period, you know, you
had the Trump administration levy a 100%
uh chip tariff uh on companies that
aren't aren't willing to commit to uh
building in the US,
>> right? And then potentially export
controls and do they actually mean that
they're going to be licenses that are
going to be taken back or will they just
be U-turned like we saw with the H20?
John, thank you so much for your time
this morning. John Vin of Key Bank
Capital Markets. Danny, when it comes to
Intel, just quickly, I think the CEO
needs to make sure he has the board
behind him before he starts going to the
president. And the Wall Street Journal
story really outlined that at the moment
there's a lot of disagreements there.
>> Yeah. And to Mandep's point, there were
those connections very apparent that he
had with China, yet a board that
approved him as CEO. Are they going to
have to rethink things? Can he survive?
John certainly expected him to survive
because he had the skill to do so.
>> Well, we'll see what he says to the
president. Maybe there's an Oval Office
meeting coming up next. Kathy Bastanic
of Nationwide expecting a 25 basis
points of Fed rate cuts this year. Plus,
Yahira is back with your morning movers.
Keeping an eye on Under Armour this
morning. That stock under pressure more
than 15%. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Anime Herd alongside
Danny Ber, John and Lisa on some
well-deserved time off this morning.
what we're seeing in financial markets.
S&P 500 futures up 2/10en of a percent
looking to close out the week in the
green just shy of record highs. If
you're looking for any sort of confusion
when it comes to Washington's trade
policy today, it's in the gold market.
These are gold futures in the United
States up more than 1%. What analysts
and traders are saying is they are all
trying to scramble to understand what is
happening between what they thought was
meant by tariff policy out of the White
House when it comes to gold imports,
especially from Switzerland, which is
facing a 39% tariff rate versus what the
Customs and Border Protection put out.
And they have clarified that 1 kilogram
and 100 ounce gold bars are subject to
reciprocal tariff rates enacted by
Trump. Tons of confusion, Danny, and
you've been really good on signaling
that this is just potentially one of the
fallouts of as we try to get more
details of the trade policy.
>> It keeps happening in different fronts,
be it gold, be it Japan, be it copper
last month, but it's kind of the worst
time for gold because there is a lot of
demand there right now. The uncertainty
means that gold as an asset class,
especially as the dollars lost its
favor, has looked more favorable. The
problem is is that in the US you have
these brokers who need the physical gold
to back what people are buying. What
happens if you can't get that? Does it
mean an Marie and I need to go on a
plane, bring our suitcases to
Switzerland, and load up on gold
ourselves?
>> Or Hong Kong. Maybe that's where John
and Lisa are. They're getting that
arbitrage right now. They're buying at
these very low discount rates, putting
it in their suitcase.
>> Good for them. I hope they are.
>> Yeah, me. Yeah, me too. I mean, they're
going to be making quite a lot of money.
All right, we're one hour away from the
cash open. Let's get your morning movers
with Yahira. Hey, Yahara. Hi Anry, I
mentioned Under Armour earlier, but
worth noting noting again since the
stock is plunging even further down 17%.
Now, this is after the athletic wear
maker warned that sales will drop far
more than expected in the current
quarter. And this is a company that like
its rival Nike was in the midst of a
turnaround, but now it's hitting some
roadblocks with tariffs squeezing its
bottom line and cautious consumers not
buying their apparel. Next up, we have
shares of Goodyear. They are also
falling down 11% now after reporting a
surprise loss when analysts were
expecting a small profit because it was
thought that this is a company that
could benefit from tariffs since it is a
domestic tire producer. But the CEO
called the quarter challenging on both
the consumer and the commercial side of
the business, specifically saying that
that was due to shifts in global trade.
And we end on Expedia with all this talk
about travel. You've been saying the
shares are up 15% after the travel
company raised its fullear outlook as
they see a recovery in demand
specifically in the US. The CEO saying
that since the beginning of July they
have seen a pickup in travel demand
especially in the US which had lagged
but with all the chaos of April and May
I hope everyone is taking a vacation.
>> Yeah, everyone needs a little bit of
holiday. That's what John and Lisa are
doing and I'll be doing that hopefully
at some point in the next month. Let's
turn back to the Fed now. President
Donald Trump tapping Council of Economic
Advisors Chairman Steven to serve as a
temporary Federal Reserve Governor
through January 2026 as Fed Governor
Christopher Waller emerges as a favorite
for Fed chair among the Trump team.
Bloomberg's Michael McKe joins us now.
Mike, first let's start what's going
what's going on with Steve Meyer. This
is an individual that's close to the
president and he's now going to be
moving from the White House to the Fed.
Does it change anything?
>> Really doesn't change anything because
of course, as we've said many times, the
Fed is a committee of 19 people, uh, the
open market committee, and 12 of them
vote. So, one vote isn't going to change
a whole lot. And he's not being
nominated for chair. So, it's not like
he's going to have a huge amount of
influence on what other people think,
but he probably is going to be able to
help the president sell his idea that we
need to cut interest rates. The Fed
seems to be leaning in that direction,
but uh not the 300 basis points that the
president wants. So, maybe he'll go
deeper on that. If this is a White
House, Mike, that does decide to put
Waller up for the chair of the Fed, how
much would a Waller chairmanship differ
from that of a Powell's?
>> It probably wouldn't differ a whole lot
in that Waller's an institutionalist.
He's been at the Fed since 2009 at the
starting at the St. Louis Fed. He was an
economics professor before that. And so
he believes in the institution. and he
would probably uh be uh he would tell
you that he's a pragmatic person rather
than a dove or a hawk. He came to uh the
Fed when he joined uh the board of
governors as something of a hawk wanting
the Fed to raise rates when uh inflation
was rising. Now he's the dove, but he
could change again if we start to see
inflation rise a lot on the back of the
tariffs that are starting to be
implemented. Mike, the next Fed meeting
and I know of course the press
conference you'll be at, that one is
going to be fascinating as we track this
musical chairs. Michael McKe, thank you
for your time this morning. We're going
to stick with the Fed. Kathy Bastangic
of Nationwide writes, quote, "We
maintain our forecast for a total of 75
basis points of rate cuts by year end.
The inflation impact from tariffs will
be a temporary adjustment that will fade
over time." Kathy, thanks so much for
joining us. Let's just quickly talk
about the cuts you have baked in. Does
the m musical chairs that Mike just
outlined change any of that?
>> Good morning, Amory. Happy to be with
you. Um, you know, I I don't think it
does. I I think, you know, Mike's point
was well taken that the data is already
getting the Fed to start to lean towards
um rate cuts sooner rather than later.
So, I really think the data is going to
play um the primary role here. Um, I
think changing, you know, having Steven
Myron join obviously gives a more uh
robust um support to cutting rates
sooner rather than later, but as Mike
pointed out, it's a committee. um he
alone won't won't sway things and and I
think Fed Governor Waller if indeed he
becomes a new Fed chair um now that will
be be next year I think I would agree
he's just going to continue um to be
really pragmatic but looking at the data
driven by data not not politics
>> when you're looking at the data
definitely predicated on what's going on
in the labor market is giving
individuals room to start to come out
and talk about the fact that they think
individuals at the FOMC like Lisa Cook
that they think that potentially
they have to start cutting joining the
denters. But Kathy, what happens if we
get a hot CPI print next month, next
week?
>> It's a risk and it can certainly
complicate things for for the Fed as
they they do their analysis. Um I I
think that um I think at the end of the
day they're going to put more emphasis
if indeed the labor market is slowing in
a material way and and the economy um
continues to have kind of sluggish
performance in the second half of the
year. I think they'll turn their
attention and put more emphasis there
than on inflation even if we get a
surprise uptick because that should
largely be temporary especially if it's
driven by um tariffs and and and goods
prices that are being increased by
tariffs. Uh and keep in mind we're also
getting some disinflation from the
service side. So, you know, they can
look at inflation as a whole and say,
"Okay, may maybe things are not um, you
know, inflation's not getting out of
control. Inflation expectations aren't
spiraling higher." So, are we already
there, Kathy, where the level of some of
the weakness in the labor market is
enough to look through inflation. And if
we're not at that level, what do you
need to see in the next jobs print to
allow this Fed, allow this FOMC to look
through some of the inflation figures?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. Um I I
think we're there, but of course we'll
get another month's worth of employment
readings and readings on the the economy
uh for the Fed to digest. But I think
when you saw the the July print, you
know, which was on the softer side and
then there's downward revisions prior
months really suggests that um and we
look at the data, private sector uh job
growth has just stalled. And um while
they're not large layoffs, if you do
lose a job, the continuing claims told
us yesterday, it's really hard to to
find a new one and new entrance are
having a hard time. College graduates,
young people. So I think we are seeing
the cracks in the labor market widen and
I think that is and and keep in mind
employment's a coincident indicator. So
if you wait until it really cracks um
you're behind you're behind the curve.
Kathy, is the information that we've
received about this labor market, is it
enough to maybe rethink the Fed's
terminal rate? Does it lower it? Are we
maybe more restrictive than we realized?
>> So, I think Yeah. So, so good point. I
mean, Fed Chairman Pal has said we're
slightly restrictive. Waller makes a
case we're we're very restrictive right
now, right? saying the long run neutral
rate is 3% and you you've got a Fed
funds rate between four and a quarter
and four and a half%. Um you know a a
few about a few months ago we had the a
call for the Fed to cut rates 50 basis
points in September. We backed off of
that and now we have 25 basis points um
because we thought Fed officials were
too cautious to go 50. I think the case
for 50 is building. I'm not saying they
would naturally do would do that, but
but that's a possibility. But I think by
year end, certainly they could go 75
basis points. Uh that would be 25 per
meeting. Um and then they'll have to see
how the the economy unfolds next year to
see whether they they need to cut rates
further.
>> One of the other elements to this,
Kathy, is while it's a labor market
slowing, while there's less demand to
add on new workers, all of this demand
is emerging in AI and the big tech
spending. Are you a believer in this
narrative of crowding out? That all of
the investment needed from tech, all of
the utilities and all of the energy that
they're hoovering up is crowding out the
rest of the private sector.
>> It's it's an interesting way of looking
at I mean we have thought it's it's been
the uncertainty over tariffs and trade
policy that was suppressing other u
capital expenditures. So where we did
see strength as you noted was AI and the
high-tech spending. Um and I think
that's because companies feel that's
where the greatest return on investment
is right and given all the other
uncertainty on structures building out
structures new plants and equipment they
were more cautious and we were thinking
that once we get past this peak
uncertainty which I think we're past but
uncertainty diminishes more they can
start to loosen up on spending reigns
especially go into next year. So I guess
we'll have to see whether there is a
crowding out effect. I'm not really
convinced of that. Um I think companies
have cash and cash reserves and the
ability to invest. They've just been
been holding off for now.
>> Kathy, thanks so much for your time this
morning. Kathy Bastandic of Nationwide
Insurance. And we want to get you an
update now on stories we're watching
elsewhere. Lizzie Burton is back with
your Bloomberg brief. Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, Amory. President Donald Trump says
he'd be willing to meet with Russia's
Vladimir Putin soon, even if Putin
hasn't agreed to sit down with Ukrainian
President Vladimir Zalinski. According
to the Kremlin, the US and Russia have
agreed on a venue for the meeting
between the two leaders that has not yet
been disclosed to the public. And
President Donald Trump tapped Council of
Economic Advisors Chairman Steven Myron
to serve as a temporary Fed governor
through January 2026. Trump will
continue to look for a permanent
replacement in the interim with the race
for Fed chair still underway. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that Fed
Governor Chris Waller has emerged as a
top candidate for the role among Trump
advisers. And the US Customs and Border
Protection Agency has clarified that
gold bars are subject to tariffs.
According to people familiar, gold
futures surged to a record high in New
York as traders are scrambling to
understand whether the tariffs are
already in force, if they apply to all
countries, or how they might be avoided.
And that's your brief and Marie. Thanks
so much, Lizzie. You see the arbitrage
right there on that screen. If you were
in Hong Kong or London, you could
basically get gold and somehow get it to
United States and maybe sell it.
>> Yeah, that was why earlier this year
planes were literally loaded up. I think
they were literally like stripping out
seats and putting gold in instead. I
guess the time for that is over now
because if you're doing that from
Switzerland, 39% tariff at least for
this moment.
>> And the big question is whether or not
this actually sticks. So this is what
the consumer border protection has come
out with. But still we are waiting on a
confirmation basically from the
administration because it was supposed
to be exempt. Yeah, it was supposed to
be exempt and again this is the second
metal in the past month where this has
happened. Copper getting a surprise
exemption. It's a lot of volatility in
this market as we learn the details. If
the day ends at Y, you do have some
certainty and some volatility. Up next
on the program, we're going to set you
up for the day ahead. Plus, Colin Martin
of Charles Schwro on why appointing a
new Fed chair could be a moot point.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
What's really noteworthy is that at this
point about 80% of companies have beat
on revenue. That's new. We haven't seen
this revenue surprise in a while. So
what that means is that analysts marked
down expectations very low for sales and
demand and they're beating those lowered
expectations. So I I think this all
bodess well for a broader market. That
was Vita Supermanian of Bank of America.
What you have right now is S&P 500
futures as we go into the opening bell.
They are up more than 210 of a percent.
really just really just treading water,
but should come out of the week in the
green. Bank of America also put out a
note that investors are pulling money
from US equities and flocking into cash
funds. Whatever you talk about, say if
you see a dip, you should buy it. As we
count you down to the opening bell,
here's a trading diary for the rest of
today and into next week, 10:20 a.m.
Eastern. We do have St. Louis Fed
President Muslim speaking. On Tuesday
next week, CPI data. This is very
important. Plus, the current trade truce
between the US and China is set to
expire. Although the Treasury Secretary
did tell me likely there'll be a 90-day
um referral that a pause of that
extension. Thursday, PPI and another
round of jobless claims. And Friday,
retail sales and University of Consumer
Sentiment, University of Michigan. That
is turning to the Fed now. Colin Martin
of Charles Schwab writing the need for
new Fed chair to cut rates could be a
moot point. By the time Fed Chair Pal's
term is up next year, the Fed may have
cut three or four times. Colin joins us
now for more. Is this the irony of all
this? The president is really jawboning
the Fed and wants to talk about maybe
regime change at the Fed. By the time he
gets some of these appointments, they've
already done what he wants.
>> I think so. I don't think it's really
going to matter because what we saw with
obviously the the headline about the
weakening labor market, now there was
already some support for rate cuts. it
seems like there's even more support for
rate cuts based on comments from various
Fed officials. And the the data
basically says that if we do get that
weakening labor market and if we look
forward to to say April, May, June of
next year, the markets are pricing in
three or four rate cuts. So even without
the headlines of a new Fed chair, who's
it going to be? How dovish are they
going to be? We might see a Fed funds
rate 100 basis points lower than where
we are right now. That doesn't mean that
the jawbon might end. It doesn't mean
that we might not get a new Fed chair
who who is as dovish as the
administration wants, but we have to
remember that it's a committee and I
think most committee members, whether
it's a governor or a district district
bank president, they look at their dual
mandate and they I think they're more
methodical about how they're going to go
about it. So, even the headlines might
not stop, but I think cooler heads will
prevail. Some people have made the point
though, and Paul Donovan at UBS
included, that Waller is actually the
most dovish pick you could have for a
Fed chair because he has credibility
with the rest of the committee and could
sway them to more dovish outlook. Is
that right? Would a Waller be the most
dovish pick over the Kevin over anyone
else?
>> Uh, based on what we've seen, I don't
know if he'd be the most dovish pick,
but but he's clearly dovish. We could
argue he's he's the most dovish uh
member of the committee right now,
governors and district bank presidents.
Um, but he's not out there talking about
the need for a three percentage point
rate cut or something like that. If the
de data were to change, maybe his tune
or tone would change, but but right now
we're not seeing that. So, it seems like
he could be in line to be the next Fed
chair. There's a lot going on. You know,
we have the the temporary announcement
for Myron because we don't really know
what Powell's going to do. So if Powell
stays on and Waller's already in there,
he he could be a logical choice without
making too many headlines or without
having to worry about the confirmation
process.
>> Well, so when Steven Myin was announced,
the market reaction was slight, but
there was one there, a little bit of
curve steepening. If you get someone
like a Myin or again one of the Kevin, a
less traditional sort of appointment to
the Fed chair, would you put on
steepeners? Does that trade make sense?
We think steepeners make sense
regardless because we think short-term
rates are likely coming down based on
the data we're seeing. But at the same
time, we have fiscal concerns that
likely aren't going away anytime soon.
And the idea that inflation might stay
elevated. We're not expecting a
reaceleration, but the idea that with
the tariffs in place right now at
relatively high levels, we can see it
stay, you know, higher than we would
have expected if we if we talked about
this say 6 months ago. So, we think
maybe long-term rates stay where they
are, maybe come down a little bit, but
likely not as much as short-term rates.
So, so I think whoever is in charge of
the Fed over the next six to 12 months,
we think the curve should continue to
steepen. I
>> was talking to Neil Duta yesterday and
he joined the program this morning. He
was talking about the fact that Powell
basically holds the cards. If it is
someone that seems overtly political
that the Trump administration wants to
put as the Fed chair, do you think he
stays on?
>> I don't know. And I say that because
because it's it's anybody's guess right
now. And I think he's in a really
difficult position. On on the one hand,
he doesn't want to or I think he does a
really good job of of not politicizing
it because he basically doesn't say
much. Anytime someone asks him a
question or he someone brings it up at
the press conference, he just defers and
says, "We're looking at the data." Now,
if there's a push for someone who is,
you know, very partisan, very political,
and is very loud about the need to cut
rates sharply, which the data right now
doesn't support, maybe he stays on uh
because his term as as governor doesn't
end for another few years. But I think
he's in a really difficult position
because that makes it seem like he's
politicizing it when at the end of the
day I think he's just trying to uphold
the integrity of the committee because I
really think he's trying to do the best
he can.
>> So you think he's trying to protect the
institution but he in the end if he were
to do that he would end up becoming
almost a shadow Fed chair. How could the
market deal with that?
>> Um I that that's a great question. I I
think we just have to understand that
again there's a lot of committee
members. So whether he's I wouldn't say
he'd be a shadow Fed chair. He would
just be one other voting member. I think
he has the respect of a lot of his
colleagues out there.
>> That's like a senator saying that
they're going to run for Congress for
the House.
>> I I I think if he was there
>> do that, you know,
>> he's he's he'd be a voter and he would
he would vote based on what the the the
mandate suggests and what the data
suggests. We have a lot of time before
next May. Uh I think it's going to be a
really exciting couple of months. Well,
we have a lot of time, but we have so
much information to digest before that
time. And this week, we had both a 10
and a 30-year auction, and both of them
were pretty weak, or at least just
lackluster, let's say. Do you look at
that and say, okay, this is real
concerns about a bloating deficit and
Fed independence, or is it just yields
have been lower since the payrolls data,
there was less demand?
>> I'd say all the above. you know, when we
look at the the fiscal concerns, which
are clearly there, and there doesn't
seem to be anyone on either side that
that wants to fix this right now from
from in the grand scheme of things, and
if we have this, you know, rising
deficits, rising debt, you know, we need
to find more buyers there. So, so I
think that's one of the reasons why we
think yields could stay elevated for a
little bit. We're not worried that
they're going to shoot significantly
higher to say 6% levels, 7% levels, but
if there are concerns and weak auctions
like we got this week, we get the
margin. Nothing crazy, but it shows that
maybe there is a slight pullback in
demand. That's another reason why yields
can stay elevated and we see a steeper
yield curve.
>> Okay. So to that point, bringing the
whole conversation around if you have an
appointment to the Fed that in practice
doesn't matter because it's already
going dovish but gives that appearance
especially to foreigners to seem to be
one that kind of chips away at the Fed
independence. Does that then matter
because it makes foreigners less willing
to fund the twin deficits of the US? I
>> I think it would matter and this is
something we talk about a lot about the
the idea of Fed independence. We're not
worried right now that that they're
going to lose that. I mean, there's a
lot of headlines about it, but but we've
talked to Ed Edin this morning about
it's a it's a committee, but that would
be a concern for us. You know, if there
was a lack of independence, we think
we'd likely see a weaker dollar. We
think we'd likely see long-term yields
rise because of that loss of confidence
in the markets. And when we look at what
we've seen in the tick data basically
from liberation day initially the first
month we actually saw foreign private
investors sell a lot of their a lot of
their treasury holdings that then
reversed in May. So we kind of have a
cloudy picture right now. We're not
really sure what the long-term trend
will be but what that shows us is is
maybe more volatility and that in and of
itself would result in kind of that
higher term premium.
>> Colin, as we close out the week, what
are you looking for next week? Is
everything just going to be dominated by
CPI?
>> I I think so. Um I think we'll have to
look under the surface. I mean that the
headline gets a lot of uh or gets a lot
of headlines, but we'll have to see what
the the the difference is between goods
and services and we'll have to see how
much pass through we're seeing in terms
of goods, the imported goods, but are we
seeing a slowdown in services? Because I
think that's the big dichotomy right
now.
>> Colin, thanks so much for your time this
morning. Colin Martin of Charles Schwab.
Danny, next week it's going to be all
about inflation. We have the weakening
labor market. Will inflation cool enough
for the Fed to feel like, okay, maybe we
can cut in September?
>> Or to Kathy Bastanic's point, do we just
look through it and say this is a
one-time thing and that there are other
disinflationary forces in? And was the
labor market data we've gotten to this
point weak enough that regardless of
what we get from the two CPI prints,
it's a Fed that's going to look through
it. You certainly are hearing speakers
like Daly, like Koskari Cook start to
talk about this idea that we need an
adjustment, not outright accommodative,
but at least getting less restrictive.
>> And we're going to hear from Fed
Governor Musulum today. So maybe he will
join in on the chorus. Coming up on
Monday, Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth, former senior White House trade
adviser Kellyanne Shaw, Peter
Oppenheimer of Goldman Sachs, and David
Lieowitz of JP Morgan Asset Management.
That was Bloomberg Surveillance. Thank
you so much for joining Danny and
myself. Don't worry, Jonathan Farrell
will be back with you on Monday morning.
Have a lovely weekend.
[Music]
Day one at the Cincinnati Open. Living
legend Venus Williams says she still
plays tennis for the love of the sport
and the seventime major champion felt
the love of the fans in her opener
against Jessica Boozes Monero. It may
not have been a winning start for Venus
but just to see her back on court was
enough for the crowd in Cincy. And don't
forget, you can watch all the action
live daily on Tennis Channel.